disney's " air bud " tells a boy-and-his-dog story with a twist -- the pooch is quite an accomplished basketball player .  granted , for a family comedy , it's not a very funny or successful idea to begin with , but it doesn't seem to matter -- " air bud " is surprisingly solemn .  save for occasional moments of forced slapstick , the movie wags its tale with a straight face -- not a very enjoyable approach .  if " air bud " had realized its own absurdity , then it possibly could have been better .  here , we're actually asked to cheer a moment when the dog marches out to save the big game , clad in two pairs of sneakers and even a jersey .  its number ?  k9 .  yeah , whatever .  the movie opens as golden retriever buddy ( as himself ) escapes from his current owner , abusive clown-for-hire norm snively ( michael jeter ) .  he ends up in fernwell , washington , where mopey new-kid-on-the-block josh ( kevin zegers ) is trying to cope with the move and the recent death of his father .  buddy , kevin .  kevin , buddy .  once the dog proves his on-court prowess , kevin's self-esteem rockets .  they both win places in the school's basketball team , with the animal as their mascot .  but before they can make it to the finals , snively surfaces to reclaim buddy .  everything plays out just as one would think : heavy on predictability , light on an actual story .  the movie follows a calculated chain of events -- kevin's gloom fades , snively gets his comeuppance and buddy contracts rabies and must be executed old yeller-style .  okay , that last one's a lie , but at least it would have been a quicker send-off than " air bud " 's courtroom climax -- no joke !  there's even a faux-cute musical montage where a reluctant buddy gets cleaned-up to " splish splash . "  paint cans are spilled and newspapers are buried , all in the name of formula .  the end credits note that " no special visual effects were used in the basketball sequences of this motion picture . "  that very well may be true , and although to see a dog sink shots is quite a sight , a movie cannot exist on feat alone .  but " air bud " doesn't seem to be interested in anything else .  a friend of mine insists he saw buddy a while back on a segment of david letterman's " stupid pet tricks . "  i can't think of a more appropriate connection -- this movie is a stupid pet trick .  
a few months before the release of star wars episode 1 , the phantom menace , 20th century fox decides to release another space film , that is a complete rip off of star wars .  what is the point of this ?  i do not know , but i wish it hadn't been done , considering wing commander is definitely the year's worst film so far .  to attract people to this horrible movie , they attached the full trailer for the phantom menace .  wing commander will draw large crowds , because this is the only film where you can find the phantom menace full trailer attached at this time .  the trailer for the phantom menace was certainly the best part of the movie experience i had tonight .  many people do not know that wing commander is based on a star wars computer game .  i found this very interesting , considering this fact almost says that wing commander is a star wars movie .  it is nowhere near the level of the star wars films though .  freddie prinze jr . stars in the film as christopher blair .  wing commander was a huge mistake for freddie .  this was definitely his worst performance to date .  after january's she's all that , i actually saw a good actor in freddie , but now all those visions have been crushed .   ( for now anyway . )  christopher blair is a pilot who is a part of the battle to stop the kilrathi , a group that is trying to destroy the earth .  blair's parents also fought in the space battles , and also died there .  his parents were pilgrims , so many people disrespect him because of this .  blair is under the command of " angel " , played by saffron burrows , and he is friends with another pilot , todd " maniac marshall " , played by matthew lillard .  matthew lillard seems to play the same role in every movie , and he does in this one too .  his character as stu in 1996's scream ( a+ ) , was a great one , but now , it seems like that same role is being played again , only in a space movie .  the three are just a small part of a large group trying to stop the kilrathi before they take over earth .  this plot is very flimsy , and doesn't give a whole lot to work with at all .  this explains why wing commander drags on , seeming like there is no point to any of the events that are going on .  the acting is horrible in wing commander .  many lines seem out of place , and are completely meaningless .  the acting and dialogue was so terrible , i even found myself laughing at it .  the other things which are very bad about wing commander are the special effects and the music .  the special effects are very unrealistic .  when looking at two ships flying side by side , it is simple to tell they are hanging and a blue screen is behind them .  the explosions look very unrealistic as well .  a ship will be blown up , but there will only be fire present four about one half of a second .  this is very unrealistic .  music pretty much accompanies the film the entire time .  the music also felt like video game music , and it was very corny and annoying sounding .  after we are given the plot , the film repeats itself for another hour , without any plot twists , interesting scenes , or anything important to the film .  blair is forced to make jumps over other planets , and he must also fight against the kilrathi aircraft .  for the entire length of the movie , it takes place in space .  it is truly like you are in a video game , because you are just watching people shoot at each other in ships for a long , extended period of time .  it's not much fun to watch at all .  if i wanted to watch people shoot at each other in ships , i would go watch star wars at home .  at least star wars pays attention to people , myth , feelings , and has some real plot to it .  the bottom line- bring on the phantom menace 20th century fox !  
bad movies described as " a swift descent into sinful pleasure , decay , and debauchery " are hard to watch .  bad 2000's movies that resemble bad 1980s films are even harder to watch .  shadow hours falls into the latter category , a mish-mashed train wreck of b-movie actors ( including michael dorn , aka star trek's worf ) , an uninteresting plot , vain attempts at capitalizing on the " underground " scenes of seedy los angeles , and really , really bad directing and horrendous music video-esque ballistic editing that was taught to me in film school right before i decided to drop out .  the film revolves around the life of michael holloway ( balthazar getty ) who is trying to restart his life with his one-dimensional wife chloe ( rebecca gayheart ) after a nasty bout of drug and alcohol addictions .  michael takes a job of working the graveyard shift at the local gas station and is bombarded by the ugliness and weirdness of the nightlife of l . a . one night , he meets a strange gent named stuart ( mr . buckaroo banzai , peter weller ) .  he drives a porsche , smokes french cigarettes , and drones on about life , eventually coaxing mike into exploring the " underbelly " of l . a . together , a tour of punk bars , s&m clubs , and bare-knuckle fights .  the film then throws in a murder mystery with a cop played peter greene , acting like he wants to get the chance at a reprisal of his role in the mask 2 . the film then simply dissolves into a cheap rip-off of dante's inferno mixed with an old stephen j . cannell television pilot .  the pace of the film is jarring and utterly without focus .  other horrors include the endless montages of people pumping gas and the charlie sheen , johnny depp , richard grieco-esque acting of balthazar getty .  peter weller clearly knows his career is completely gone and doesn't give two shits about it .  and after the cheap exploitation of bondage clubs , dance clubs , and brothels - damn , isn't anyone safe any more from the ugly eye of hollywood ! ?  way back in 1984 , a great but crazy director named abel ferrara made his worse film and called it fear city .  shadow hours reminds me of an almost perfect sequel .  director/writer : isaac eaton producers : peter alevey , andrea mia , shon greenblatt , balthazar getty starring : balthazar getty , peter weller , rebecca gayheart , peter greene , frederic forrest , brad douriff , michael dorn  
bruce willis needs to stay away from straightforward action pictures .  mercury rising adds to a growing list ( including such stinkers as the jackal , last man standing , striking distance and the last boy scout ) of stale actioners he has headlined .  and though mercury rising tries to spice things up by throwing an autistic kid in the mix , it is every bit as stale .  art jeffries ( bruce willis ) is your typical tormented fbi agent .  you know the type , haunted by his job , yet so good at what he does that even physically assaulting another agent merely gets him a slap on the wrist .  enter simon ( miko hughes ) , an autistic boy , who , like rain man and all other autistic people , is a savant .  he can merely gaze at a super-encrypted message , and , while little computer beeps go off in his head , he can understand what it says .  naturally , this talent has brought him to the attention of the federal government .  lt . col . nicholas kudrow ( alec baldwin ) , an nsa official bubbling over with evil , has spent countless time and money implementing the newest " unbreakable " code , mercury .  however , when two of his underlings ( robert stanton and bodhi pine elfman ) publish a mercury-encrypted message in a puzzle magazine as a final test of its effectiveness , simon cracks the code .  naturally , this infuriates kudrow , who sends a terminator-like hitman ( l . l .  ginter ) to eliminate the security hazard .  and that's where art jeffries comes in .  for some reason that's never explained in the film , the fbi is called in to help , and through a series of intricate machinations , art becomes the sole protector of the young autistic boy .  in a few unrealistic sequences , he enlists the aid of a stranger , stacey ( kim dickens ) , to help out , but she is given very little to do overall .  the central concept behind mercury rising is ludicrous .  why bother trying to kill the kid . . . i  mean , who would know ?  it's not like the kid ( or anyone else for that matter ) knew he was cracking a government super-cypher .  and even if he is eliminated , what does that help ?  he's already proven that mercury can be broken .  there's always the chance that someone else would crack it . . . but  i guess without a kid in jeopardy , there's not much of a movie here .  for all its faults , the film actually starts relatively well ( once you pass the painfully familiar teaser ) .  the film flirts with developing real characters , and a semblance of a plot . . . then  mr . terminator the hitman appears and everything begins going downhill . . . quickly .  miko hughes does a decent job , for his age , at creating a touching performance .  however , don't go to this film looking for any new insights into autism ( not that many people will ) .  instead he merely becomes the latest unique partner in a routine buddy-cop movie ( think cop and a half . . . with a twist ! )  willis and baldwin are just overplaying to type .  rather than creating a nuanced character , baldwin simply oozes sliminess .  and for willis' part , he simply recycles the stock role of the loner cop/fbi agent ( which he has honed in the die hard series ) .  as almost an afterthought , about halfway through , the film carelessly gives him a character trait ( an addiction ) , and then drops it in the next scene .  but the biggest problem with mercury rising is the screenplay .  this film wasn't well thought out at all .  the film goes to extraordinary lengths to pad in as many convenient coincidences as possible .  the carbon paper scene alone is unworthy of the most gullible audience member .  at first the bad scenes just trickle in , but by the gruesomely bad finale they're a veritable flood .  the film's few decent moments come in the form of bad jokes ( mainly from the geeks who developed the supercode ) .  but they're not nearly enough to make the film worthwhile .  mercury rising is a thriller that you're more likely to groan at than cheer .  
capsule : godawful " comedy " that's amazingly shabby and cut-rate , and rather bereft of laughs .  i was having a bad week in my life when i saw austin powers : international man of mystery .  i desperately needed something to cheer me up , or at least distract me so i could get a clear head .  get some perspective .  even dumb movies can do that for me , sometimes .  i tried hard not to let my dejection affect my judgment , but i am certain now that austin powers would have also sucked rocks through bamboo shoots on the day i won the lottery .  michael myers has taken a character that would barely have supported a five-minute sketch on saturday night live and stretched it to the length of a feature film , padding it out with toilet jokes and the sort of props-strategically-positioned-between-naked-actors-and-camera gags that benny hill got tired of fifteen years ago .  the plot , what little there is of it : back in the swinging mod hep sixties ( i don't think i'm doing a disservice to the movie's attempted early look and feel by describing it that way ) , sexy british secret agent austin powers tangled with his nemesis dr . evil .  evil launched himself into orbit and cryogenically forze himself to return decades later , when powers was out of the picture .  powers also had himself frozen , and he wakes up to find the nineties a very hard time to deal with .  the basic gag , that of powers' total inability to cope with the nineties , is not so much exhausted during the course of the movie as never even really dealt with .  the bulk of the movie is taken up with dumb jokes of several basic rubrics : james bond gags ( of which this movie has no end , right down to the silly character names ) , inept slapstick , toilet humor , and strategically placed props . . .  the movie's amazingly bereft of ideas , come to think of it , with a couple of bright exceptions .  one is dr . evil's son -- there is a sidesplitting scene where father and son go to an encounter group , chaired by carrie fisher -- and the other is a throwaway gag where austin mimics various forms of transportation from behind a couch ( it's a visual gag -- hard to describe , and hard to recommend seeing the movie for ) .  a lot of sixties kitsch has been resurrected and thrown on the screen for this movie , but it's desperate rather than clever .  instead of skewering the whole thing , it's a rather bloodless and unfunny tribute .  myers himself is also desperate : he's given an idea to play , not a character .  plus , the attempts to make the character work by giving him a relationship with another sexy ( albeit " nineties " ) agent are a waste of time .  i wanted to have the movie end with him trying yet again to get it on with her , only to have her deck him one .  with a couple of exceptions , the movie misses all of its own best moments .  the movie even looks cheesy , and not in a good way : i kept wondering if it had been transferred down from hi-def video or something , so grainy was the film stock in a good many scenes .  the whole thing has the air of being done on the cheap .  my definition of comedy is simply : did it make me laugh ?  the few times that i laughed in austin powers were completely offset by the time i spent cringing and wanting out .  the most damning thing i could say about the movie is that wayne and garth would most likely have shoved it into mike tyson's shorts and sent it sailing .  
battlefield earth is the worst film of 2000 , and i guarantee you that nothing else this year will even come close .  in fact , i'll be surprised if i see anything this bad in the next ten years .  based on the novel by scientology guru l . ron hubbard , battlefield earth begins and we immediately find out two pieces of key information .  it's the year 3000 , and an alien race called the psychlos ( which sounds like a tag team of mexican wrestlers ) conquered our planet in nine minutes .  ok , we are all of 10 seconds in and i have a zillion questions racing through my mind .  when were we conquered ?  the audience is led to believe that this happened about 1 , 000 years earlier , and if that is the case then we're going to get into a whole bunch of problems later ( trust me . . .  keep reading ) .  also , why don't we get to see earth get conquered ?  how the hell do you make a popcorn sci-fi flick and not deliver the goods on the one event that sets up the film ?  humans now live as cavemen or slave labor , and for the film's first act we focus on one particular cavemen group outside of denver , colorado .  they grunt and groan and babble about monsters .  so , when the psychlos conquered earth , were the only humans not captured a herd of newborn babies that crawled their way to safety in the hills ?  none of these characters have any knowledge of the planet being conquered ( whenever that was ) .  this is definitely not the way to start an action/sci-fi film .  one of the humans wanders out into the wilderness and stumbles across what he thinks is a monster , and he begins to fight it .  the " monster " turns out to be a dinosaur from an old miniature golf course .  he turns around and sees all sorts of other characters from the golf course , with some shrubs growing over them .  so , in 1 , 000 years this stupid little golf course has stood the test of time , with only a few weeds growing over it ?  anyway , some of the humans are captured by the psychlos led by terl ( john travolta ) a smarmy and opportunistic alien planning on stealing a recently discovered gold deposit .  the cavemen ( led by barry pepper ) are forced to do their bidding or whatever , but eventually they gain the upper hand and reclaim the planet , or something .  so these cavemen are able to do what earth failed to do 1 , 000 years earlier ?  and , we're supposed to believe that earth was conquered in nine minutes by a group of buffoonish aliens who can't even handle a few cavemen ?  one of the ways the humans reclaim the planet is by taking control of abandoned air force jets and using them to fight the psychlos .  so jets left unattended for 1 , 000 years are still able to fly ?  please , if i leave my car unattended for two weeks i have to replace every fluid and hose under the hood .  why did the psychlos leave jets around anyway ?  shouldn't they have destroyed military installations during their massive nine minute campaign against us ?  the psychlos refer to humans as " man animals " but yet dogs are still " dogs " .  why aren't they " dog animals " ?  the psychlos are after mining earth's precious resources , but for 1 , 000 years are unaware of fort knox ?  why do i even care at this point ?  i'm a fan of travolta's and i'm glad to see he's back on the a-list in hollywood ( despite the fact that he occasionally puts out crowd pleasing dreck like michael and phenomenon ) .  but how did he possibly think this was a good movie ?  and how did he think he was giving a good performance here ?  he's more than capable of making a menacing villain ( see broken arrow and face/off ) but whenever his character came on screen i couldn't hold back my laughter .  now despite the different facial features members of this alien race seem to have , travolta just looks like travolta .  all of the other aliens have weird foreheads or other pointy bones on their face , but travolta just has a goatee .  also , travolta's acts with a sort of phony upper-class snooty accent and constantly whines about bureaucratic nonsense back on his home world .  ooooo , scary villain .  as a producer he should know better and as an actor he should definitely know better .  you can make a dumb but good sci-fi film ( i love independence day for example ) , but there is absolutely nothing entertaining about battlefield earth .  i did everything i possibly could to stay awake during the screening . . .  i cleaned my glasses , walked around the theater , made a grocery list , chose my lottery numbers for the week , replayed super bowl xxv in my head ( with commercials ) . . .  and still was compelled to scrutinize the insides of my eyelids .  by the time we actually reach the year 3000 , people should still be avoiding this film .  folks , save your cash . .  don't go see it , don't rent it , and don't buy it .  you'd be more entertained by taking the money you'd use for this movie and just throwing it into the wind , watching it sail away ( hell , send it to us here at the jacksonville film journal . . .  we'll entertain you plenty with that kind of money ) .  unless of course you're just captivated by countless slow motion shots of barry pepper running , which is just about all you'll come away with from this movie .  that , and a headache .  [editor's note : for some reason though , the day after my screening i converted to scientology .  i'm not sure why . . .  something just made me feel compelled make the choice . ]  
jet li busted onto the american action movie scene , when he stole the show in 1998's lethal weapon 4 , with his wicked looks , his nasty moves and his undeniable charisma .  it only took another two years for mega-producer joel silver to set him up in an all-american movie , primed to take over some of the empty action-hero seats left by alleged coke-head van damme and that pudgy guy named steven seagal .  would this film take li past his rival asian action counterparts , namely chow yun-fat and jackie chan ?  let's find out .  plot : rival chinese and black gangster organizations fall further out of favor from one another , when members of their respective families start turning up dead .  that's when badass jet li blasts into the picture to find out who the men were behind his brother's death and to exact some of his own style of revenge .  critique : three words : not enough action !  simple enough ?  not enough hong kong kickass jet li action to compensate for a horribly predictable screenplay , bad actors , crappy dialogue and oh-so many over-the-top melodramatic moments .  and a romance angle ?  why , one must ask . . . why ?  i love fight scenes and i really dig jet li too , but this little ditty barely contained three memorable action sequences , and jet , well , the poor dude was barely in the movie .  and i thought this was supposed to be his big break ?  how 'bout giving the slickster some more opportunities to show us his kung-fu fighting chops , slap him in a few more scenes , and give him more chances to practice his acting/english abilities ?  what a letdown .  even black mask was more entertaining than this glossed up , empty shell of a film .  in fact , i am sure that more time was spent gathering the " hits " for the soundtrack of this film , than were on the so-called " screenplay " .  i felt like i was watching a soundtrack rather than a movie most of the time .  the sad part about the bad script is that it wouldn't matter so much if the film actually had some decent actors spouting out the tacky lines .  but no , save lindo and aaliyah , who weren't too shabby , i thought the rest of the cast was picked primarily from their inability to deliver lines convincingly .  and what was the deal with the whole nfl franchise deal run by some 15-year old looking guy , acting like he's the overlord of a drug ring ? !  what a mess .  then again , i don't want it to seem like i'm complaining solely about the story which was completely foreseeable , since we all go to see these movies for the action anyway , not the story .  well , i guess that's what disappointed me the most out of this film .  there were a couple of cool fight scenes with li , but simply not enough to satisfy my overall craving .  also , as much as i love the way they incorporate wires and special effects in some of their stunts , a couple of the exaggerated fight scenes were simply too obvious a stunt .  it should be seamless , fellas , not necessarily against the laws of gravity !  the one cool thing that was original in the movie was the way in which the director showed us some of the inside cracklings of the human body when penetrated by a blow , but that simple creative touch couldn't save the rest of this film's uninteresting plot movements .  i'm disappointed for jet li that this film didn't give him the real opportunity to star in a good story with many great action scenes .  hopefully , the next time will be a charm for this charismatic actor .  for now , i just hope that for his sake , the film's title isn't a premonition of the movie's ultimate fate at the box-office .  
one night , during a torrential downpour that flooded the streets , we went to see -- what else -- hard rain .   " so , are we all going to die ? "  the sheriff ( randy quaid ) asks in the story's opening line as he evacuates his flooded town .  the answer is pretty much yes , but not nearly soon enough .  and to add insult to injury , the supposedly dead , regretfully , often turn out not to be so .  populating this bad tv-movie-of-the-week material are a host of talented actors .  one can only hope they were rewarded handsomely for acting in this hopelessly muddled picture .  besides the obvious hardships of acting most scenes while dog paddling in the water , they will all receive black marks on their records for appearing in this dismal movie .  graham yost's script serves up one cliche after another for the actors , who thankfully managed to mumble quite a few of the lines .  director mikael salomon's staging is so confusing that you may have trouble figuring out what is happening .  the befuddled presentation is exacerbated by peter menzies , jr . 's dark and ugly cinematography .  the plot concerns an armored car that gets stuck in the raging water .  onboard are guards tom and his uncle charlie .  christian slater , who is much better in his tender roles as in untamed heart , plays tom .  edward asner drops by briefly to take on the role of the soon to be dead charlie .  coming to their " rescue " is a gang headed by jim , played on autopilot by the great actor morgan freeman .  he views the loot , three million dollars worth , as his retirement plan .  the entire movie is one big watery chase with the sheriff and his posse tracking jim and his gang , who are in turn after tom .  along the way , tom picks up a love interest in the person of a crucifix-weapon wielding woman named karen , played in a totally wasted performance by minnie driver .  the action sequences are repetitive and without much interest .  they do feature lots of explosions and gunfire to keep you awake .  christopher young's emotionless score for the film has a single trait , ear-shattering loudness .  the plot holes are as big as the ones in the dam that breaks , submerging the town .  the characters have an infinite number of bullets and rarely do they have to bother reloading their guns .  the weapons and the ammunition spend most of the time under water or being rained on but always fire perfectly .  when one of the bad guys drops a gun into the water , it stays in the same place until much later when tom swims to get it , even though the swift water is so strong it is uprooting large trees .  counting these improbabilities is one of the more enjoyable ways to spend your time as you wait for the characters to kill each other .  the show has a single , but unprintable , good line .  betty white plays an incessantly bossy wife , and , when her hen-pecked husband finally told her off , our audience roared with laughter .  the show concludes with a sickening set of twists .  the best that can be said of the picture is that it is merely stupefyingly awful as opposed to laughably bad .  hard rain runs 1 : 37 .  it is rated r for violence and would be fine for teenagers .   ( the two families behind us shockingly had a half-dozen preschoolers among them . )  
it was with a huge lack of something to do that i decided to watch this on good old upn on sunday afternoon , when the only good things on tv are the second-rate movies they show ( some are good : they showed " total recall " before this one ) .  if you know me , i think seagal is probably the most boring action star to ever live .  and this includes keanu reeves .  what do i hate about seagal ?  i hate how he uses one facial expression for every single threatening and non-threatening situation ( the squint ) .  i hate those scenes in every movie where he goes around , bullying people up , saying stupid lines with a brooklyn accent more fake than burt reynold's hairpiece in " boogie nights . "  i despise how he never gets a bruise in any of his fights .  i hate how every single plot twist leads to just a melodramatic fight between he and the chief villain .  i hate his non-satirical messages ( in the beginning of this one , he slaps on a quote from arthur miller , which has nothing to do with the film , except it's about brooklyn where this film takes place ) .  and i hate how he's so narcissistic that he thinks that he can actually fucking sing ( during the end credits , he has a good old hill billy rock tune sung and penned by him ) .  sure , the guy's probably a nice guy in person ( i actually found him very non-threatening when he was on letterman not too long ago ) .  but the guy makes worse films than reagan did .  so what's the plot of this shit-terpiece ?  well . . . something  about him trying to catch a stupid-ass crook ( william forsythe ) who shot and killed his partner in broad daylight .  i couldn't believe how bad this scene was - the guy was conveniently with his family so we get the maximum emotional effect ( ahem ! ) .  and forsythe even said some stupid lines to him before he took off .  i'm sorry , did anyone ever hear of concealing one's self ?  so in comes ex-brooklynite seagal , who dedicates his life to catching this guy .  and i just wished he had caught him in the beginning , then ended the film .  but noooo , this drags on , as he bullies forsythe's family members ( including a stupid bar-owner , and none other than gina gershon as his other bar-owner sister ) .  and forsythe more than once threatens his family .  at one point , he actually comes to their house and stalks them like a non-threatening nicholson in " the shining " ( complete with them all hiding in the bathroom , but with an added bonus of one girl conveniently loosing her cool and screaming to give them away ) .  seagal paints himself as a lovable person , with a son , and a fiancee .  he even shows him hanging with his son , checking up on his homework , and then about to take him out for a bit of " catch , " when he's conveniently called away on assignment .  i dunno about you , but playing " catch " with seagal was one of my childhood nightmares .  he also shows him as that bad-ass he wants to be , with scenes of him bullying crooks around , and taking out people who are stupid enough to attack him even after he's unarmed a chinese guy swinging bats with a pool cue .  serves them right .  this film , as some of his do , has an interesting supporting cast of actors who are actually talented , but don't appear to be in this film .  i already mentioned gina gershon ( who's pretty horrible in this one ) , as well as william forsythe , who over-acts terribly .  i know this guy can act : he was awesome in " raising arizona " as goodman's partner in crime .  but he's just awful here .  jerry orbach gives the only credible performance in the film as the police chief who checks up on segal after things have gone down .  why is he the only one who gives a good performance ?  well , because his role is small enough and sporadic enough to not tarnish his credibility .  he seems to be in here just to give it a cool " law and order " feeling ( even if it's not a " cool " feeling ) .  and in cameos are b-rated erotic-thriller-cinemax-style stars , shannon whirry ( as " terry malloy , " which is more of a bad joke than a clever one ) and athena massey .  oh !  and " er " 's julliana margiulles has two scenes .   " out for justice " just proves once again that american action films just suck .  i know that there's such a good thing as good action - he's called john woo .  but if you're in the mood for some good old no-brainer , fun-yet-dumb action , don't bother watching this .  it's so stupid that it's boring .  
vampires starts out almost in the style of a spaghetti western with an attack on a small homestead in new mexico .  the house has a nest of vampires and jack crow ( james woods ) is leading a team of vampire hunters in to clean them out .  while the initial imagery is a little over-dramatic , it gives way to what is a fairly decent action sequence .  that is enough action to last us a while and we could , director john carpenter would let us , get to a story line .  but it is not very long and there is not much plot until the next big action scene .  then there is only a bit more of plot before the next action scene after that .  the plot is kept to a minimum and the interesting ideas in the plot really get the short end .  and that is something of a pity because the film , based on the book vampire$ by john steakley , gives us a myth for the origins of vampires and explains why vampires are so intertwined with religious imagery .  this could be an interesting departure from the standard vampire film , but carpenter decides to tell us about it rather than to show it .  what carpenter saves his serious screen time for a sequence of spectacular fights between hunters and vampires .  there is a lot of fighting and lots of gore .  anything intriguing is kept to a minimum to so it does not get in the way of pleasing the action film fans .  this has not always been carpenter's style .  his 1981 version of the thing has action but also challenges the viewer to do a little thinking about the film's central science fictional question .  jack crow heads a vampire swat team , cleaning up nests of vampires with high-tech spears and crossbows .  in the early part of the film his team is wiped out by a particularly mean vampire valek ( thomas ian griffith ) who has been tipped off to who crow is .  now crow team is gone and he is down to himself and his sidekick tony montoya ( daniel baldwin ) .  to make matters worse , he does not know the people on his own side , tony and his backers , he can trust .  meanwhile jack is sure the vampires are looking for something that must be hidden somewhere here in new mexico .  if this is sounding like a very tired police corruption plot with a few obvious substitutions , that's exactly what it is .  the same story looks just as well with two partner cops looking for a gang of hood who are themselves looking for a packet of heroin .  but carpenter goes against a familiar principle of film : show people , don't tell them .  just about everything in the plot other than the fights we are told about in the dialog and not shown .  fundamental questions in the plot like where does crow get his funding , why are the vampires in new mexico--what do they want and why do they want it , what is the connection of the vampires and the catholic church , how did crow come to be a vampire hunter and why devote his life to it ?  the answers to any of these questions could have been dramatized , but instead are revealed through dialog .  now if all this was not bad enough , carpenter misuses the james wood persona .  woods plays a particular sort of cool lowlife very well .  but carpenter leads off the film by having woods do some sergio-leone- style mythic posturing .  while his crew prepares for an attack he stands staring fixedly through shades at the house that will be his target .  woods does not work as a larger than life mythic hero .  that is not his style and it just does not work very well .  there are some simple things that carpenter should be looking for as director that he misses .  in one scene we are looking at a motel room with dead people on the floor .  one female corpse is on the floor in front of a chair so that there is about an inch of daylight between her and the chair .  as the actress breathes the gap widening and narrowing makes it obvious her arm is moving up and down .  one also wonders how the existence of vampires is kept secret .  these vampires do not maintain a low profile .  there are arguably logical flaws in the film .  there is some question in my mind whether carpenter has a consistent policy on what effect bullets have on vampires .  it would take some rationalization to explain why in some scenes sunlight has a dramatic effect on vampires , yet in a scene toward the end a vampire can walk under a burned roof that lets him be swept by beams of sunlight .  i suspect that the book on which this film was based was better thought out .  while i might recommend this film to an action audience i would say that what i look for in a vampire film vampires rates a 4 on the 0 to 10 scale and a 0 on the -4 to +4 scale .  perhaps i will read the book .  
when considering david fincher's latest film , " the game " , four words come to mind .   " don't believe the hype . "  this michael douglas vehicle , from the director of " seven " , isn't nearly as clever or innovatively suspenseful as it would have us believe .  the film draws us in with an intriguing concept ( aided no doubt by the riveting trailer ) where a jaded millionaire ( douglas ) is presented with the opportunity to enter into a living fantasy .  this isn't simply virtual reality .  this is real life with a deadly twist .  on his 48th birthday , nicholas van orton ( douglas ) is invited to dinner by his underachieving younger brother , conrad ( sean penn ) .  conrad has a special birthday present for his brother .  he hands nicholas a gift certificate and tells him to contact a company called consumer recreation services .   " they make your life fun , " conrad tells him .  nicholas humors his brother , telling him he'll call , but it's clear he has no time for any foolish , " fantasy role-playing , " as he calls it .  then , for reasons that are never really made clear , nicholas decides to go to crs and see what they're all about .  he ends up spending a whole day going through their screening process , which to me made no sense considering the tight schedule he keeps claiming to have .  nevertheless , when it seems nicholas has been rejected as a crs client , the weird things start happening .  of course , when we've only covered about 30 minutes of screen time , what else should we expect .  douglas has built his modern career around playing powerful , violent and unlikable men being manipulated by unseen hands .  one of those films , " basic instinct " , came from the creative minds of writer , joe eszterhas and director , paul verhoeven .  the premise of " the game , " is not unlike the concept of another verhoeven film , " total recall . "  in that case , the premise was implanting someone else's memories as a way to enhance one's own life through a dream vacation .  yet , in both films , the real goal is to create a vicarious bond with the audience .  we live the adventure along with the protagonist , reacting to each twist and turn .  in theory , the key to the suspense is not being to tell what is real and what isn't .  all we can do is hang on until the end of the ride , when the truth is finally revealed .  now , for those of you who forgot , let me say this again .   " don't believe the hype . "   " the game " is not a thrilling roller coaster ride .  as a suspense-thriller , it doesn't do much but spin in circles .  by the third reel , i was fighting back sleep and checking my watch as i endured the predictable plot .  is it any wonder douglas won't be able to resist the charms of a mysterious , potentially life-threatening blonde ( ever heard of glenn close ?  no ? well , how about sharon stone ?  thought so ) .  if anything in this film surprises you at all , i would guess you haven't seen that many films .  there is no suspense here .  trust me , i looked hard to find some .  i had to settle for contrived gimmicks and ridiculously implausible situations .  fincher aim's for hitchcock but lands somewhere just north of joe eszterhas .  there are those that might say " the game " is not intended to be viewed literally .  i would submit that is exactly the way i tried to view the film .  the film simply does not have the teeth to bite into any real psychological issues .  there is a moment early in the film where van orton , realizing his game has begun , smiles as he walks through the airport trying to figure out who's in on the whole thing .  he is charged by his paranoia .  he is looking at the world through new eyes .  it is the last thought-provoking moment in the film .  from there on , the director only wants to stay a step ahead of us .  any significant archetype that is set up in the beginning of the film is simply turned into a plot device .  at the outset , we're told each " game " is tailored to the individual .  ultimately , this " game " is supposed to work like a crucible , trying this obscenely wealthy and emotionally detached aristocrat by fire , proving his soul .  yet , as douglas endures his personal gauntlet , we're given very few pieces of the puzzle to illuminate us on who this man really is .  i wanted to like this film more than i did .  i look at it as just anothergreat idea , poorly realized .  i can think of at least two other superior films where watching the film didn't mean we were seeing what was really happening .  bryan singer's " the usual suspects " for one , a film that was truly unique in its ability to get you lost in the details before pulling back to show you the full masterpiece on the canvas .  also , there is the underrated " jacob's ladder , " with tim robbins , a film that really has to be watched twice before you recognize the significance of all its symbolism .  here are two examples of films that don't simply manipulate for manipulations' sake .  there are films that use their labyrinth structure to lead us to a meaningful place .  one major issue that comes up in " the game " is whether or not the whole " illusion " is just a highly sophisticated con game .  well , i can tell you right now , after you've spent your $7 dollars , you may be asking yourself the same thing .  
weighed down by tired plot lines and spielberg's reliance on formulas , _saving private ryan_ is a mediocre film which nods in the direction of realism before descending into an abyss of cliches .  there ought to be a law against steven spielberg making movies about truly serious topics .  spielberg's greatest strength as a director is the polished , formulaic way in which every aspect of the film falls carefully into place to make a perfect story .  but for a topic of such weight as combat in the second world war ( or the holocaust ) this technique backfires , for it creates coherent , comprehensible and redemptive narratives out of events whose size , complexity and evil are utterly beyond the reach of human ken .  in this way spielberg trivializes the awesome evil of the stories he films .  _saving private ryan_ tells the story of eight men who have been detailed on a " pr mission " to pull a young man , ryan ( whose three other brothers were just killed in fighting elsewhere ) out of combat on the normandy front just after d-day .  ryan is a paratrooper who dropped behind enemy lines the night before the landings and became separated from his fellow soldiers .  the search for him takes the eight soldiers across the hellish terrain of world war ii combat in france .  there's no denying spielberg came within shouting distance of making a great war movie .  the equipment , uniforms and weapons are superbly done .  the opening sequence , in which captain miller ( tom hanks ) leads his men onto omaha beach , is quite possibly the closest anyone has come to actually capturing the unendurably savage intensity of modern infantry combat .  another pleasing aspect of the film is spielberg's brave depiction of scenes largely unknown to american audiences , such as the shooting of prisoners by allied soldiers , the banality of death in combat , the routine foul-ups in the execution of the war , and the cynicism of the troops .  the technical side of the film is peerless , as always .  the camera work is magnificent , the pacing perfect , the sets convincing , the directing without flaw .  hanks will no doubt be nominated for an oscar for his performance , which was utterly convincing , and the supporting cast was excellent , though ted danson seems a mite out of place as a paratroop colonel .  yet the attempt at a realistic depiction of combat falls flat on its face because realism is not something which can be represented by single instances or events .  it has to thoroughly permeate the context at every level of the film , or the story fails to convince .  throughout the movie spielberg repeatedly showed only single examples of the grotesque wounds produced by modern mechanized devices ( exception : men are shown burning to death with relative frequency ) .  for example , we see only one man with guts spilled out on the ground .  here and there men lose limbs ; in one scene miller is pulling a man to safety , there's an explosion , and miller looks back to see he is only pulling half a man .  but the rest of the corpses are remarkably intact .  there are no shoes with only feet in them , no limbs scattered everywhere , no torsos without limbs , no charred corpses , and most importantly , all corpses have heads ( in fairness there are a smattering of wicked head wounds ) .  the relentless dehumanization of the war , in which even corpses failed to retain any indentity , is soft-pedaled in the film .  ultimately , _saving private ryan_ bows to both hollywood convention and the unwritten rules of wartime photography in its portrayal of wounds and death in war .  rather than saying _saving private ryan_ is " realistic , " it would be better to describe it as " having realistic moments . "  another aspect of the " hollywoodization " of the war is the lack of realistic dialogue and in particular , the lack of swearing .  anyone familiar with the literature on the behavior of the men during the war , such as fussell's superb _wartime : understanding and behavior in the second world war_ ( which has an extensive discussion on swearing ) , knows that the troops swore fluently and without letup .   " who is this private ryan that we have to die for him ? "  asks one infantrymen in the group of eight .  rendered in wartime demotic , that should have been expressed as " who is this little pecker that we have to get our dicks shot off for him ? "  or some variant thereof .  conversations should have been literally sprinkled with the " f " word , and largely about ( the search for ) food and sex .  this is all the more inexplicable because the movie already had an " r " rating due to violence , so swearing could not possibly have been eliminated to make it a family film .  however , the most troubling aspect of the film is the spielbergization of the topic .  the most intense hell humans have ever created for themselves is not emotionally wrenching enough for steven spielberg .  he cannot just cede control to the material ; he has to be bigger than it .  as if afraid to let the viewer find their own ( perhaps unsettled and not entirely clear ) emotional foothold in the material , spielberg has to package it in hallmark moments to give the war a meaning and coherence it never had : the opening and closing scenes of ryan and his family in the war cemetary ( reminscent of the closing scene from _schindler's list ) , the saccharine exchange between ryan and his wife at the close ( every bit as bad as schindler's monologue about how his car , tiepin or ring could have saved another jew ) , quotes from abraham lincoln and emerson , captain miller's last words to private ryan , and an unbelievable storyline in which a prisoner whom they free earlier in the movie comes back to kill the captain .  that particular subplot is so hokey , so predictable , it nigh on ruins the film .  nowhere in the film is there a resolute depiction of the meaninglessness , stupidity and waste which characterized the experience of war to the men who actually fought in combat ( imagine if miller had been killed by friendly fire or collateral damage ) .  because of its failure to mine deeply into the terrible realities of world war ii , _saving private ryan_ can only pan for small truths in the shallows .   .  
if you're going to make a two-hour hollywood in-joke , why bother releasing it to the general public ?  if you're going to create a film that will appeal primarily to big-name actors and people who know woody allen , then why waste the time of the rest of us peons by playing it in theaters ?  while watching celebrity , i realized that allen had only marginal interest in creating a story about real people .  what he really wanted to do was continue on his recent kick of conceited self-deprecation .  celebrity is yet another film in which allen tells a story about himself , living in a world that he's familiar with , dealing with people like the ones he actually knows .  allen recruited poor kenneth branagh to bumble through this picture , in an imitation of allen so perfect that it almost made me like the film more .  branagh plays lee simon , a journalist-turned-screenwriter who divorces his wife , robin ( judy davis ) , shacks up with some hot women ( famke janssen , charlize theron , winona ryder ) , and goes about trying to get big stars ( melanie griffith , leonardo dicaprio ) to read his script about an armored car robbery .  the usual elements of recent allen films are all here , including the sexual insecurity of the main character , lots of self-loathing women , and a tiring continuum of episodes that are only loosely related to one another .  unless you work in the film industry or know woody allen personally , it's not likely that you'll find a whole lot of interest in celebrity .  aside from all the in-jokes , the story falls far short of compelling , and the characters are all empty and lifeless .  branagh proves once again that he's a superb performer , nailing his imitation of allen flawlessly .  the problem is that he's the same character allen always plays , a character who's getting more than a little dull to watch .  i mean , come on , how many times have you seen this guy ?  -- he hates his work , and he can't be satisfied by any one woman , and , at the end of the movie , nothing has been solved .  he brings all of his problems upon himself ( crashing his car because he's receiving fellatio , and other such stunts ) , so it's pretty hard to care about him .  in addition , isn't allen capable of creating characters who aren't just like him ?  i know he is , but he didn't do it in celebrity .  the vacant emotional attachment with the main character is not recaptured in the supporting performances .  davis , playing the same woman with low self-esteem that she played in deconstructing harry , has a few touching moments , but ends up the same despicable celebrity-type that fills the rest of the movie .  some of the actresses are saved because of their beauty -- theron and ryder , especially -- but they're not likable people .  only famke janssen , as a book editor interested in simon's new novel , has any life .  the men in the picture don't do much better -- joe mantegna is pretty dull as the man who remarries robin , while dicaprio , as a christian slater/johnny depp-type spoiled young actor , is funny but disengaging .  what's really insulting about celebrity is how dull and standard its " themes " are .  allen seems to think that he's making an insightful movie about the way " normal " people look at celebrities .  the main problem with this is that the character with whom we're supposed to identify , simon , is not a " normal " guy -- he's just as entrenched in the hollywood image as the rest of the characters .  the other problem is that the image we get of these celebrities is no more enlightening than the view the media gives us -- none of them register as realistic , interesting characters ; they mostly just function as set pieces for boring dialogue .  in addition , allen decides he needs a scene in which the theme is expressed explicitly ( robin , in this scene , says something like , " it's interesting to see the way we all look at the people we celebrate ! " ) .  celebrity is arguably allen's biggest misfire to date .  it does have a few good scenes -- theron's super-orgasmic model character is kind of funny , and the last scene might have been moving had the rest of the film shown us a character or two .  but celebrity is a failure at the core , unless allen's point was to make a self-indulgent movie about himself and his friends .  if he wanted to make his audience feel like they were on the outside of a big joke , then he succeeded in that .  i , for one , don't enjoy feeling like an outsider .  
it used to be that not just anyone could become a vampire .  usually , you had to be an aristocrat - a count such as dracula or karnstein .  to qualify , you'd have to have a modicum of sophistication , so you'd at least look cool - or suave - when biting into some young damsel's throat .  but today , in our overly politically correct world , any scuzzy-looking , long-haired , unshaven lout or any spiked-haired harridans can put the bite on you .  by the same token , to be a vampire hunter , one had to have some sort of medical training and knowledge of the occult or maybe perhaps be some sort of professional soldier , or at least one who retired with honors .  not in these times .  all you need are some sharp weapons , some bullets forged from silver and any yahoo can be a buffy - or a blade .  without sounding elitist , the fear of vampires has greatly diminished because of this lack of exclusivity .  which brings us to blade , the latest in a long line of vampire movies in which , it seems , half the population is putting the bite on the other half .  not only are there thousands of vampires , but they seem to move from city to city , pay off police departments and , most importantly , establish their own exclusive after-hours raves in which the highlight is the sprinkler system going off and dousing all the occupants in a blood shower .  with all that blood , you wonder why they have to hunt for victims .  you also wonder when they get the time to get their clothes dry-cleaned and why no cleaner ever complains about all the bloodstains .  blade , which is based on a marvel comic book character , is , like a comic book , all visual .  the plot is basically blade repetitiously slashing his way through the vampire army seeking their leader , deacon frost .  it's all hokum and nonsense , of course .  but the filmmakers play it straight .  unfortunately , at least at the advance screening i attended , the audience didn't see it that way and laughed through much of the proceedings .  you know a movie is in trouble when the scenes of blood and gore that should elicit screams of fright instead evoke peels of laughter .  another tell-tale sign is when the audience seems to be admiring the hero's costume more than the hero .  also it seems it's not enough for today's vampire merely to have fangs .  he must also be proficient in the martial arts .  why a supernatural being , one of the undead , needs such skills is beyond me .   ( of course , this concept dates to the 1974 hammer films-run run shaw production of legend of the seven golden vampires , in which dracula is defeated by seven karate-chopping siblings . )  wesley snipes is buff as blade .  he growls his lines -the few he has - and spends most of the time glowering - as if he was suffering from indigestion or having second thoughts about starring in and co-producing this turkey .  blade is just another example of how the vampire film , a once honorable member of the horror family , has gone downhill .  this dud mostly makes you yearn for those quaint old days when christopher lee could be stopped just by dangling a crucifix in his face .  today's vampires lack the panache , the style of a bela lugosi or a christopher lee .  they are not even worthy enough to carry those great bloodsuckers' capes .  they are more farcical than frightful .  this whole enterprise is one dull blade that could have used lots of sharpening .  
hav plenty , as we are told in the beginning and reminded during the film , is a true story .  life itself is a series of true stories , but most are not movie material .  as scripted , directed , and acted by cinematic newcomer christopher scott cherot , hav plenty limps along at best .  its dialog is so stilted - " you know what they say , 'no women ; no cry . ' "  - that the actors are content to read the screenplay rather than invest much energy in trying to act it .  in the story , lee plenty ( cherot ) is a 28-year-old author and teaching assistant .  the movie , which happens mainly over the new year's holiday , consists of a series of incidents in which various single and married women try to kiss lee or take him to bed .  since he consistently refuses , caroline gooden ( tammi katherine jones ) figures that he must be gay .  eventually he and havilland " hav " savage ( chenoa maxwell ) get together , proving that he wasn't gay after all , just picky .  sexy women can sit on his lap and ask him to go to bed with them , but he will not even kiss them .  he's a man who knows his mind , which he frequently shares directly with the audience in a series of trite and overly cute monologues .  filled with wealthy african-americans , the story is closest in tone to love jones , which was better .  hav plenty's story doesn't go anywhere .  at the end it subjects us to lee plenty's new film , which is a movie of the movie we've just seen , but with even worse acting .   " remember folks that , as outrageous as this all seems , this is a true story . "  hav tells the camera , but the problem is that it's not outrageous at all or even the least bit interesting .  hav plenty isn't so much a bad film as it is a total waste of the audience's time .  hav plenty runs 1 : 32 .  it is rated r for profanity and would be fine for most teenagers .  
it seems that i've stopped enjoying movies that should be fun to watch .  take payback , for example , a movie that most people seem to like .  however , it's horrible schlock , straight out of hollywood's vast talent for sucking creativity out of movies .  it was written and directed by a guy who should have done better ; however , maybe he did do better , after all , 30 percent of the movie isn't his own .  mel gibson , that hollywood zombie , decided he didn't like the ending and had another director reshoot it .  what a crock .  if you sign on to do a movie , then do it the way the script calls for .  why film a movie and then look at it later and say , - no , i changed my mind , i don't like the ending .  you're fired .  let's get someone else to do it .  - i suppose honor is dead in hollywood .  the end of the film is , of course , hollywoodized .  which is to say that it's happy and the guy you root for beats impossible odds to win his prize .  in this case , as is most victories in hollywood movies , gibson's prize is a blond and money .  i miss originality in film , i really do .  i think audiences are so starved for it that they'll flop down a lot of money in hopes that a movie will be original .  payback's tagline - get ready to root for the bad guy - promised an original idea , but it was far from the truth .  while gibson's character certainly broke the law , he was a character that had honor ( odd that gibson himself seems to have very little of it ) , wouldn't kill in front of children and protects his blond woman .  there's nothing bad about him - he's a hollywood character , a person who could never exist in real life .  and gibson knows it - he spends his time trying to act like a " bad guy " , and instead comes off as pretentious and arrogant .  the story involves gibson being double-crossed by his partner ( who is a real bad guy , which made me wish that we could root for him ) over $70 , 000 .  gibson recovers from multiple gunshots , is pissed ( naturally ) , and will do whatever it takes to get the exact amount of money back - no more , no less .  he makes a point of it that it's strictly 70 grand .  a real bad guy would have made his ex-partner pay 25% interest .  this idea is completely stretched out .  gibson ends up going after his partner and the chicago mafia that his partner is affiliated with .  what i didn't understand - this is the chicago mafia .  $70 , 000 is like spare change to them .  they'd probably just pay the guy rather than go through the trouble of dealing with him .  i think they'd respect a guy going through this much trouble for a simple $70 , 000 .  maybe i'm being too hard on the movie .  perhaps the filmmakers were just trying to make a simple popcorn movie .  i read roger ebert's review and he liked gibson in the role because he is a comic at heart playing a bad guy .  that's why we're allowed to root for him .  and it's true - gibson walks the movie as if he's smiling at a joke he just heard .  but he's wrong here .  i wanted a lee marvin or old-time clint eastwood or somebody who wasn't a comic , just an ass kicker .  as a side note , i've just checked the internet movie database and discovered that i am the 38th person to post a newsgroup review of payback .  after this many reviews , why would anyone want to read this ?  really , i don't care .  i'm just trying to gain membership into the on-line film critics society by posting as many reviews as i can .  
note : some may consider portions of the following text to be spoilers .  be forewarned .   " quick , robin !  the anti-shark repellant ! "  - adam west in the 1966 batman feature film , casually kicking at a pathetic-looking rubber shark attached to his leg  i had never thought that an entry in the modern incarnation of the batman feature film would approach this level of campiness , but in many instances batman and robin nears , and at some point even exceeds this standard .  this is a disasterously bad film , easily the worst in the series to date , and fairly epitomizes a cinematic definition of the word excessive - it's loud , garish , and obnoxious , with pointless , gratuitous action sequences and set pieces which clutter up the screen with elaborate production design to the point of overkill .  batman and robin features the caped crusaders ( george clooney debuting as batman , with chris o'donnell returing as robin ) squaring off against another bevy of chemically-induced villains - the nefarious ice-cold mr . freeze ( arnold schwarzenegger ) , armed with a weapon which freezes everything in its sights , and the slinky poison ivy ( uma thurman ) , who has the ability to blow powerful love dust into the faces of men in order so that they will fall helplessly in love with her ( not that the dust is really necessary to accomplish this result , but whatever ) , and then dispatch them with a poisoned kiss .  by ivy's side is the giant steroid monster bane ( jeep swanson ) , a grunting hulk of a beast .  the villains' goals are noble ones - freeze steals diamonds to power his climate suit ( in order to keep his body temperature at zero degrees ) , so that he can survive in order to devise a cure for his beloved wife ( vendela ) , dying of a degenerative disease and frozen in suspended animation , and ivy's intent is to restore the dominance of plant life on earth , albeit by destroying all human life .  meanwhile , on the homefront , life at wayne manor is thrown into upheaval by the illness of butler alfred pennyworth ( michael gough ) , and the arrival of his niece barbara ( alicia silverstone ) .  akiva goldsman's screenplay for the film is ridiculous and laughably bad , with astonishingly terrible dialogue , lame jokes , and an awful by-the-number plot which simply coasts along and fails to generate any genuine excitement .  it makes goldsman's screenplay of batman forever , which i thought was dreadful , look positively inspired in comparison .  i am still astonished that a cheesy plot device which i'd seen used in - no joke - an episode of gilligan's island somehow make its way into a multimillion dollar blockbuster production .  joel schumacher's direction of batman and robin is horrific , with a terrible balance of flashiness over substance .  there is a clear conceit towards neon in this film , even moreso than with his previous batman forever , with the revamped batcave helpfully sporting gigantic glowing emblems for the dynamic duo ( just in case , i suppose , if they ever happen to forget that the batcave is the headquarters of batman and robin ) , and with neon prominently figuring in an utterly-pointless fight sequence with bane and a street gang over ivy's chosen new abode .  another action sequence which fails to serve any useful point other than to chew up five minutes of screentime involves an incredibly uninvolving late-night motorcycle race with barbara and some gotham goons .  mr . schumacher's focus for batman and robin appears to be to make the film as visually striking as possible , to the detriment of the story - there are drastic shifts in the tone of the film between all-out camp and heartfelt drama , with the latter completely unconvincing and ineffective .  it is perhaps not the most promising of signs when the group i was with burst out laughing within twenty seconds of the film's opening , even before a single line of dialogue had been uttered .  is batman and robin supposed to be campy ?  i think it is - it's hard to imagine that the filmmakers could have intended many parts of the film to be taken at all seriously .   ( one of my favourites was when bane helpfully grunted " bomb ! "  each time he laid down an explosive device in the gotham observatory . )  is it supposed to be as overly campy as it turned out to be ?  i somehow doubt it - the subplot involving afred is delivered so solemnly and with such graveness that the impression is made that the film isn't attempting to be the utter farce which it is .  arnold schwarzenegger is top-billed in the film as the villainous mr . freeze , and is bland and uninteresting , perhaps the worst thing that a villain can be .  mr . schwarzenegger's attempts to be menacing are laughable , and his attempts at conveying pathos are laughable ; frankly , everything he does onscreen is laughable .  by the end of the film , i was stifling a chuckle every time he simply appeared onscreen .  the bulk of his performance consists of uttering near-unintelligble puns and one-liners featuring every possible permutation of " cool ! "  in the least inventive way .  george clooney has been given very little to do in batman and robin , being overshadowed by the villains , and consequently he looks rather uncomfortable in the film .  his batman is hardly an imposing figure .  chris o'donnell is unimpressive in a one-note performance , while alicia silverstone lackadasically fails to make any impression at all .  the film's one saving grace ?  undoubtably uma thurman's entertaining performance as sexy villainess poison ivy .  her work in batman and robin is certainly over-the-top , but in a controlled fashion which works splendidly within the tone of the film .  ms . thurman's comic timing is impeccable , and reminds us that it takes skilled performers to make campiness work successfully .   ( i'm already starting to positively reassess jim carrey's performance in batman forever . )  her amusing poison ivy is the most entertaining character in the film , and when she's offscreen the film greatly suffers .  i figure that if one has to die , being kissed to death by uma thurman isn't a half-bad way to go .  while batman and robin was hardly a ride of pulse-pounding excitement , i must admit that i was not bored watching it , although i did glance at my watch repeatedly through the screening - my attention was kept through anticipation of the utterance of yet another terrible pun or one-liner , and by awaiting yet another scene to fall flat .  it's been a long time since i've laughed so much at a movie .   " at " , of course , is the operative word .  
everything about this ninth trek movie seems on the cheap , from the roger corman-grade special effects to its highly derivative and ugly ad campaign ( the poster is nearly identical to that of star trek vi : the undiscovered country ) .  but piller's not-quite-half-baked screenplay should ultimately claim responsibility for insurrection's failure .  i'm about to give the same advice to rick berman and co .  as i've given to the financiers of james bond movies : it's time to breathe life into this workhorse by hiring solid genre writers and a real director .   ( while we're at it , put that visor back on laforge ! )  for three hundred years , the ba'ku species ( who look just like humans ) have lived on a ringed-planet that might as well be called the fountain of youth .  six hundred of them occupy the briar patch , the area affected by metaphasic radition , a positive energy that reverses the aging process in the elderly .  but evil ru'afo ( this is probably abraham's last stop before performing " amadeus " at a dinner theatre near you ) , leader of the son'a ( who look just like burn victims after reconstructive surgery ) , wants to relocate the ba'ku and movie his people onto the briar patch in their place , in order to replenish his dying breed .  the federation is all for this , but picard feels this is a direct violation of the prime directive : to not interfere with the development of an alien race .   ( never mind that the ba'ku didn't exactly evolve-they went wandering in the universe one day and stumbled upon the magic world . )  every time frakes gives an interview lately , he seems to top whatever ludicrous statement he last gave regarding this installment .  he has called it a comedy , a thinking man's picture , a throwback to the old series , and , most grievously , he has likened it to a john ford western .   ( i presume that's some john ford he went to school with , not the director of the searchers . )  he has also gone on record as saying paramount recut the film from his version .  that's no excuse-someone generated this footage .  muddy cinematography and sitcom sets are the least of its problems ; star trek : insurrection appears to have been beamed in from the planet plotholia .  consider such curiosities . . .  picard's love interest , anij ( donna murphy ) , can slow things down by staring at them ( such as a waterfall or falling rocks ) -her scientific explanation for this ?   " don't ask . "  worf gets a pimple ( he's re-experiencing klingon puberty thanks to the time-defying atmosphere ) , laforge regains his eyesight ( trust me , levar burton's real eyes are scarier than those electronic lenses he wore in first contact ) and troi brags about her firm boobs , but picard remains as bald as an android's butt .  most suspiciously , what exactly is the problem with letting this endangered race have a little fun in the sun ?  the filmmakers cloud the issue with some nonsense about a family feud of sorts , and they also turn ru'afo into a completely power-mad superfreak , just so the characters will have something to do in the climax .   ( and if you've seen return of the jedi , you've seen the ending of this movie . )  didn't picard himself previously disobey the prime directive when he prevented the borg from assimilating millions ?  frakes lucked out with first contact , and repeat viewings of that film reveal the seeds of what went wrong in his direction of insurrection : he has no sense of comic timing , and he mines for acting chemistry where none exists .   ( take a look at the painful " troi gets drunk " scene in fc and you'll get the general idea of insurrection's unsuccessfully jokey and hollow tone . )  even the worst shatner and co .  treks , like the final frontier , maintained a watchability thanks to the effortless , charming comaraderie between kirk , spock , and bones .  neither first contact nor insurrection has any idea what to do with crusher ( gates mcfadden , whom i must say maintains a fabulous physique ) , troi , or laforge .  and all three next generation films spend too much time on data , who is the franchise's answer to urkel .  need a cheap laugh ?  have data say something sexual , or start singing , or lift up a four hundred pound boulder as if it's the hunk of styrofoam it really is .  here's my proposed title for number 10 : data star data trek : data data data data data .  in this movie , data will become preoccupied with learning to blow his nose , while crusher and troi watch silently from 500 yards away and laforge points his sinister gaze at the android in doubly robotic observation .  star trek : insurrection had one nice , eerie , silent moment that hints at a better , darker film .  i'm not saying all of them should be star trek ii : the wrath of khan , but this one boldly went where no movie should go again .  
this is one of the worst big-screen film experiences i've had for a while .  with this film , plus `showgirls' and `basic instinct' , paul verhoeven has stamped himself as currently one of the worst blockbuster directors .  his celebrated film `total recall' was ? i admit ? successfully scripted , but it nonetheless contained directorial flaws .  obviously nobody wanted to invest too much money in a production from someone like verhoeven , the result being that much of the special effects in `starship' seemed fake .  but not everything bad in the film was the director's fault , even though he was one of the guys who employed the actors .  it is surprising that none of the actors received nominations for the razzie awards ( i expected five for the acting categories ) .  casserole vanity devoid , dense ribald , dingy miasma , and jackass bushy are in serious need of acting school .  no , they have to pass primary school drama classes first .  while `total' was written well , `starship' is purely pathetic .  all right , it is supposed to be a fast-paced entertainment film , and you're supposed to turn off your intellect ( completely ) and enjoy the action sequences and special effects ( that is , guts and gore ) .  as a matter of fact , i found the activity incredibly boring , a complete waste of more than two hours .  half of the film was a bad episode of `beverly hills 90210' ( dina meyer was in " beverly hills " ) , while another quarter was simply nothing ( things like presenting irrelevant information in an irritating way on the web ) , and the rest was a display of humans fighting computer-generated images .  the battles were all the same ? jumping around , shoot or get stabbed ? and on barren planets that only had giant insects .  there weren't even any stunts , which i consider slightly more exciting than pictures running around .  i wonder what the insects eat , if there's nothing but them on the planets ?  there is so much laughable treatment in this film , and it is frankly not amusing when jokes are intended .  this type of story is obviously aimed at 10-year-olds , who can't see it anyway because of the violence and some sexuality .  but then , there are always 16-year-olds who have that frame of mind .  the pointless plot begins when johnny's ( vanity devoid ) girlfriend carmen ( richards ) decides that she wants to join the troopers to fight the insects who are throwing asteroids at earth .  johnny then signs up as a trooper also , after an overacted argument with his parents .  but there is another girl , dizzy ( meyer ) , who likes johnny and then there is another boy who likes carmen , which results in a love quadrangle , which isn't better , because it means augmented worse-than-stereotyped soap opera , increased bitchiness , and more bad beverly hills + melrose .  and the result of this love quadrangle at the end is also rather stupid .  anyway , getting back to the thing you might call plot , johnny is too stupid to be a pilot and has to join the infantry , while his girl and the other dude are in the same league .  dizzy comes chasing johnny and joins the infantry also .  they then start training , which contains what roger ebert calls ips ( idiot plot syndrome , moments when only an idiot would have made such obvious mistakes ) , then real combat .  and guess what ?  that's about as complex as it gets .  oh , and one of their friends , carl ( neil patrick harris a . k . a . doogie howser m . d . ) , becomes involved in war intelligence , and his abilities at the end are really corny and make me want to spray insecticide on someone for it .  he's my fifth nom for a razzie .  the troopers fight , fall in love , die , kill , and try to act .  naturally , they win , or sort of half-win .  of course , in between ( and at the end ) there are soldiers chatting and smiling while carrying grievous wounds caused by bug legs .  the bugs also suffer from ips : why would you release hold of your captive before killing it ?  isn't it also amazing that earthlings haven't invented better hand-held weapons by then ?  the only question that remains is why i gave it one star instead of zero .  well , maybe a-quarter ( of a star ) for the originality of the co-sex shower scene and the ( very ) brief moments of suspense , another quarter for copying `zulu' and letting the good guys ( the bugs ) win , and half a star for the sucking-out of the brain of one of those people who call themselves actors ( but there should have been more , the troopers deserved to die ) .  
phew , what a mess !  for his fifth collaboration with director rich- ard donner ( lethal weapon i-iii , maverick ) , mel gibson plays a motormouth , maybe mentally ill new york city cabbie , jerry , whose wild conspiracy theories are all but ignored by alice ( julia roberts , acting all serious ) , the justice department employee that he has a crush on .  she not interested , but another person is : a cia psychiatrist ( patrick stewart ) who promptly kidnaps him .  is one of jerry's conjectures correct ?   * is * the metal strip in the new $100 bill being used to track your movements ?  is oliver stone still alive , because he cut a deal with george bush to spread * dis * information ?  is this movie really about * any * of the crazed cabbie's theories ?  no , no , and no .  as it turns out , there's some other nonsense going on here , involving and revolving around jerry's background .   ( hint : pay attention to an early scene where jerry blacks out and flashes back , in quick succession , to images of an interrogation room , hypodermic needles , and ms . roberts herself . )  the * initial * premise is pretty good and is played , for a while , at a delightfully dizzying clip .  mel is wider-open that we've ever seen him and , if his character's relationship with roberts' initially strains credibility , their combined star power is blissfully intoxicating .   ( the highest wattage of the summer , perhaps ? )  even when the plot contrivances begin to intrude , the two remain a randy dandy screen pair .  there's a great scene in jerry's fortress , er , apartment , with alice trying to act casual as her hyperactive host tries to remember the combination to a locked coffee bean container .   ( which he stores in another locked con- tainer , his fridge . )  other hilarious moments , of which there are many , include a trio of memorable convention-breakers , where alice ditches a tail , jerry cold-cocks someone , and , later , eludes a foot pursuit , each in a uproariously unexpected fashion .   ( that's donner's own ladyhawke playing in the theater , btw . )  let's see , other pleasures include . . .  a brilliant title sequence , a jazzy score from carter burwell , and the worth-paying-to-see sight of roberts pumping lead into one bad guy and slamming another's head into a wall .  oh , pretty woman !  getting to the latter , however , requires slogging through an increasingly overburdened and ultimately unappealing story .  the last hour of conspiracy theory devolves from tolerable to torturous to almost unwatchable .  more stuff happens of the stupid shit variety than is worth mentioning here , except , perhaps , for a late sequence that has alice locating jerry in an abandoned wing of a mental hospital by hearing his voice carrying through the air ducts .  and here i thought it was wabbit season .  good god , who rewrites these movies ?  and do they arrive in nondescript black vehicles ?  
in french , the phrase " film noir " literally means " black film . "  webster defines it as " a type of crime film featuring cynical malevolent characters in a sleazy setting and an ominous atmosphere that is conveyed by shadowy photography and foreboding background music . "  classic film noir , including such memorable fare as " the big sleep , " the original " cape fear , " and orson welles' striking " a touch of evil , " employed black and white photography to emphasize the long shadows associated with the genre .  color came into play with neo-noir films like " chinatown " and " blade runner . "   " l . a . confidential , " easily the best film of 1997 , is a wonderful piece of contemporary neo-noir filmmaking .  for a textbook example of how to take all the elements of neo-noir and create an absolute mess , there's " palmetto . "  based on " just another sucker , " a short story written by british author rene raymond under the pseudonym james hadley chase , " palmetto " shows what happens when a filmmaker puts style ahead of substance .  director volker schlondorff ( " tin drum , " the handmaid's tale " ) stated " we weren't even sure for a long time if it was going to be a thriller or a comedy . "  it shows .   " palmetto " is too preposterous too be taken seriously as a thriller and too ponderous to work as a comedy .  the story begins when journalist harry barber ( woody harrelson ) is released from prison .  someone turned state's witness and revealed that harry was framed , a " reward " for blowing the lid on corruption in the small florida town of palmetto .  bitter and broke , harry plans to hitchhike to miami and start his life over , but ex-girlfriend nina ( gina gershon ) appears to return him to palmetto .  while hanging out at a bar , he notices that a beautiful woman has left her purse in a phone booth .  harry pockets her cash , only to have the woman reappear and catch him with her money in his pocket .  no problem , though .  the radiant blonde is rhea malroux ( elisabeth shue , ) the young wife of a very rich older man with heart problems , and she has a proposition for harry .  rhea needs " a threatening voice and someone to collect the ransom " for the staged kidnapping of her teenage stepdaughter odette ( chloe sevigny . )  the girls want to bilk a half-million dollar " ransom " from the old man and will happily give harry $50 , 000 for helping with the scam .  things go wrong , of course .  odette is found dead , leaving harry frantically trying to dispose of the corpse and cover his tracks .  in an ironic twist , harry is asked to work for the local d . a . 's  office .  they need a press liaison to field questions about odette's kidnapping and feel that harry is the perfect man for the job .  not a bad set-up for a noir film , if only schlondorff knew how to handle the material , but he never settles on a consistent tone .  the actors don't know what to do with their characters either , muddling the proceedings even further .  as if that wasn't enough , the story suffers from major problems in logic .  woody harrelson is a talented actor with an admirable willingness to take on risky parts , but he's lost here .  presented as a crusading journalist who was horribly wronged , it makes no sense that harry would be stupid and dishonest enough to get caught up in this scheme .  harrelson clearly doesn't know what to do with harry's character , so he spends most of the film glowering , sweating and generally acting miserable .  meanwhile , elisabeth shue gives a goofy performance , behaving like a vamp on nitrous oxide .  as the stepdaughter , chloe sevigny lays on so many slurpy quirks that she comes off like juliette lewis jr . despite a number of steamy scenes , there's no chemistry between harrelson and the women .  to make matters worse , schlondorff badly dubs in dialogue while the character's lips are running over each others bodies .  two particularly bad scenes highlight the film's problems .  while driving with a body in his trunk , harry has a minor car wreck and a cop shows up .  the officer wants to help change harry's flat tire and asks him to open the trunk .  harry's pathetic attempts to keep the trunk closed might have worked if played as comedy , but under schlondorff's grim direction , the scene is just embarrassing .  the film's nadir comes when a bad guy prepares to kill harry and nina .  we're supposed to be horrified watching our hero dangling over a bathtub filled with acid , but by this point the film has foundered so badly that the scene is merely reminiscent of when jessica and roger rabbit were suspended over a vat of dip .  had " palmetto " been played with tongue firmly in cheek , it might have been an entertaining shaggy dog story .  but under the harsh direction of schlondorff , the film is just a sluggish paint-by-numbers exercise in neo- noir cluelessness .  avoid this nonsense and go see " l . a . confidential " instead .  
plot : lara croft is british , rich and kicks a lot of ass .  she also likes to raid tombs but when the illuminata discover that all nine planets are about to stand in alignment for the first time in 5000 years , and that lara holds the key to time , well , needless to say , they want to nab it from her .  oh yeah , lara also likes to sport a lot of tight shirts . . . hummana-hummana-hummana . . .  critique : angelina jolie was great in this movie .  there were also about three " action scenes " that were pretty cool to look at in this film .  uhhhhhm , unfortunately the rest of the movie sucked !  bad dialogue , generic sidekicks and bad guys , a lame mystery , yoda-esque moments with mumbo-jumbo being sprouted about and even some crappy cgi near the end .  all in all , this movie wasn't the horror show that some of the early reviews had warned us about , especially since every other scene does feature jolie's torpedoes begging to burst out of her lucky shirts , but it was quite the letdown nonetheless , especially when you consider the major opportunity that the filmmakers had here to create a cool , hip woman hero , based on a popular video game .  i don't know , i guess you have to put most of the blame on director simon west , who didn't really tie the whole movie together all that well .  the film lacked energy , a consistent pace and well . . . a  fun time !  i felt kinda depressed while watching this movie .  all that " father " crap was horrible and the dialogue given to poor john voight to recite was just plain embarrassing ( and i'm not even gonna mention his moustache . . . hehehe ) .  why have this shite in the movie at all ? ! ?  i especially hated the scenes in which some ghost-like figure , friend or child would ramble on about lara croft's father while all the time , i'm not giving one ounce of crap as to what they're talking about .  i guess that's called lack of " character development " , right ?  that's when a movie builds enough background into the characters on the screen , so that we could actually " get into " it and care about them .  i didn't care about anyone in this movie , and was bored during most of its " let's explain why we're doing all this gobbledygook " moments .  and even though i thought that jolie kicked some mighty ass ( damn , did she look sexy blasting those guns or what ? ! ? ) , everybody else around her was so goddamn boring !  her butler was a throwaway with no personality , her side-kick was supposed to be funny but just annoyed me every time he said the word " bugger " ( and he says it a lot , trust me ! ) and all of the so-called bad guys just spewed one-dimension !  they had no spark , no energy amongst them , and even though a few of the action scenes in the movie were cool ( see the trailer and you'll know which ones i'm talking about ) , the overall picture was lame and the dialogue and mystical bull-crap just buried it even further .  also , for a movie that's supposed to be about all of these exotic locations , i wasn't necessarily impressed by any of its exterior shots , and even less so with its interiors , which all looked like they were shot in the same room .  mind you , i won't go as far as to say that it's the " worst movie of the year " ( remember that i actually have to go see freddie prinze jr . movies also ! ) , but it's definitely the worst film that i've seen during this summer movie season ( of course , it's still early and i'm sure there are a few more garbage heaps coming down the pike ) .  skip this one altogether and rent any of the indiana jones movies instead . . . trust  me , you'll miss the boobs but end your night with some rock-solid porn and it's all good !  where's joblo coming from ?  raiders of the lost ark ( 10/10 ) - the mummy ( 8/10 ) - lost in space ( 7/10 ) - the mummy returns ( 6/10 ) - the general's daughter ( 3/10 ) - romancing the stone ( 7/10 ) - wild wild west ( 3/10 ) - mission impossible 2 ( 7/10 )  
it happens every year -- the days get longer , the weather gets warmer and the studios start releasing their big-budget blockbusters .  this year's crop already seems inferior to that of past summers , even 1997's lackluster trio of batman & robin , the fifth element and the lost world .  the marketing blitz in 1998 has been centered on godzilla ( " heeere , lee-zerd , lee-zerd . . . " ) , which doesn't make me optimistic about future summers .  godzilla is , of course , based on a series of cult movies ( translation : really bad movies only a few people can tolerate ) from japan that turn up really late at night on ted turner-owned cable stations .  that this big-budget remake won't rise above its roots is fairly obvious .  the credits show us the origin of godzilla .  in five words : nuclear explosion creates giant lizard .  sounds like an enquirer headline , doesn't it ?  the mushroom cloud is followed by the inevitable " discovery " sequence .  this time , a japanese guy is eating noodles with chopsticks while watching sumo wrestling ( if that ain't a stereotype . . . )  when he discovers the telltale radar blip .  people die .  cut to our protagonist , played by matthew broderick .  he makes his first appearance wearing headphones , warbling along to " singin' in the rain . "  it's a none-too-subtle sign that he wishes he were in a classier movie .  no dice , bueller .  from the beginning , poor matthew has to do embarassing things like fondle giant earthworms and stand in godzilla's enormous footprint .  every disaster movie has to have a know-it-all scientist , and this time broderick is it .  as the world's leading expert on radiated earthworms ( and wouldn't you love to have that printed on your business card ? ) ,  broderick is invaluable to the government .  he immediately dispels vicki lewis' theory that godzilla is a dinosaur because , hey , you can't take seriously the intellectual arguments of " newsradio " cast members .  broderick instead hits the nail on the head , announcing godzilla is a radiated lizard .   " the radiation isn't an anamoly , " he announces , and lightning strikes .   " i believe this is a mutated abberation , " he continues , and lightning strikes again .  it's vocabulary lightning , you see , activated by words of four syllables or more .  meanwhile , we're introduced to our new york cast , headed by an ambitious broadcast journalist ( maria patillo ) , broderick's former love .  gee , what are the odds their paths will cross again at a dramatically important time ?  poor patillo has been trying to get ahead in the news business for years but has been held down by heartless anchorman harry shearer .  italian cameraman hank azaria tells her she's not ruthless enough : " nice doesn't get you anywhere in this town .  it's dog eat dog . "  actually , it's lizard eat city , as godzilla emerges from the atlantic to begin a rampage on the big apple's core .  the filmmakers provide us with a one-note drunk fisherman who hooks godzilla .   " i think i've got a bite , " he announces as a gigantic tidal wave begins rushing toward him .  you can guess what happens next .  similar reactions spring forth as the monster prowls the city .  hearing the rumble of approaching footsteps , one new yorker remarks , " please don't tell me that's another parade . "  please don't tell me that's the best line you could come up with .  mayor ebert is not pleased .  played by the principal from " head of the class , " he continually makes the wrong decision when given an option , and bickers with his assistant gene .  i guess the filmmakers knew they'd be getting two thumbs down from the critics and didn't even bother to kiss ass .  the problem is , if you're going to attack siskel and ebert , you should at least make it funny .  dialogue like , " didn't we agree that we weren't going to have any sweets until after the election ? "  followed by , " back off , gene , " just doesn't work for me .  other lame running jokes include everyone mispronouncing the broderick character's last name and frenchman jean reno's inability to find a good cup of coffee in new york .  there's even more fun to be had as godzilla progresses .  as the beast heads back into hiding , broderick suggests the military lure it out with food .  cue twelve dump trucks , all dropping fish into a new york intersection .   ( broderick : that's a lot of fish . )  that ambush fails , but broderick soon figures out why godzilla came to new york by buying $50 worth of home pregnancy tests and running lizard blood through them .  yep , godzilla's with children , which makes you wonder just what kind of creature would be horny enough to have sex with godzilla .  that's until broderick explains that godzilla reproduces asexually , like linda tripp .  godzilla comes to us from the makers of independence day , so it has a lot of dumb action scenes , destructive special effects and shallow subplots .  look no further than patillo's betrayal of broderick ( patillo : what have i done , animal ?  what have i become ? ) and the climactic " godzilla's nest " sequence in madison square garden .  the main difference is , independence day was about the experience .  it had a real global , patriotic element to it , and some genuinely fun characters .  godzilla has lots of rain and lightning , reptilian action ripped off from jurassic park and endless product placement from the likes of kodak , blockbuster , juicy fruit , swatch , sprint and bumble bee tuna .  yes , bumble bee actually paid to be known as the official tuna of godzilla .  that fact alone is twice as interesting as anything in the movie .  
i heard actor skeet ulrich discussing this film in a couple of interviews , and in both instances , he felt the strange compulsion to compare it a little series of films called lethal weapon .  now , i personally remember those films as a ) starring a major motion picture star b ) being funny c ) having great action sequences d ) great chemistry e ) decent character development .  hmmm . . . . okay . . . now on to my review of chill factor .  plot : a graveyard shift regular working joe and ice cream truck driver fall onto a malicious plan by an ex-army general , to propose a nuclear device to international prospects .  when the device suddenly falls into their reluctant laps , they must keep it cool on ice , and rush it over to an army base , before the contraption ticks over 50 degrees fahrenheit , and kills millions of people .  critique : " speed on an ice-cream truck " is probably the pitch that was used to sell this one-tone movie to its backers , but unfortunately , the only way that anyone could compare this film to that tension-filled , original two hours of cinema , is in its distinct honor of being the complete opposite of what that film , and the lethal weapon movies , stood for .  this film is seasoned in cliches , with plenty of badly written dialogue , over the top acting from cuba gooding jr . , zero chemistry between the two leads , and horribly tacky bad guys , tossed in to complete an overall bad movie recipe .  my friend and i enjoyed watching this movie to a certain extent , because some of the lines in it were so bad and obviously " written " , that we just had to crack up .  that , and the formula for the film's script which followed the proverbial 1-2- , and you guessed it . . . 3 scenario !  and what about all those catchy , hip names to get us to relate to the characters . . . . " elvis "  and " nighshift " , oh what talent lies in the minds of these screenwriters ( and yes , it actually took two guys to come up with this regurgitated drivel ) .  it is unfathomable to me as to how actors skeet ulrich and cuba gooding jr . got involved in this one-week-old-blue-cheese-smelling project .  did they actually think that it would boost their careers , or did they know that the script sucked , but discounted any fall from grace , knowing full well that the stack of cash in their back pockets would pad their fall ?  most probably the latter .  have you seen either fled or bulletproof ?  well , despite the slight differences in plot , the essentials are basically the same here .  you get a black guy and a white guy being chased by a bunch of people , having no choice but to work together to get somewhere , hating each other at first , but over time , learning to respect one another as individuals .  yawn .  add to that , the fact that our film actually has bad guys who are all dressed in black , drive black cars and black vans , and run around with all kinds of telecommunicative devices sprinkled around their head .  not too conspicuous , eh ?  call me a party-pooper , but as much as i like a nice cheezy movie as much as the next guy , this film just doesn't even try to do anything original or reasonably entertaining .  one cool scene with a boat careening down a mountainside , and another with a nuclear device obliterating everything on an island , do not a fun , buddy-action flick make .  show cuba the money , everybody !   : )  little known facts about this film and its stars : this is not a little known fact or anything , but damn , is it just me or does skeet ulrich look an awful lot like great-looking actor johnny depp ?  skeet's real-life nicknames include chester , skeeter and mosquito .  he stands 6'1 " , was born in north carolina , and got married in 1997 to that sex-kitten actress from clay pigeons ( 7 . 5/10 ) ,  georgina cates .  they own a farm together in virginia and seven dogs .  skeet has a long scar on his chest from open-heart surgery done when he was 10 to correct a ventricle defect .  actor cuba gooding jr . was born in the bronx , new york .  in 1984 , he break-danced during the closing ceremonies of the olympic games in los angeles .  he stands 5'10 " .  actress hudson leick , who plays one of the " bad guys/girls " in his movie , is better known from her role as " callisto " on the popular tv series " xena : princess warrior " .  this film reportedly had a budget of $40 million ? ?  i'm not exactly sure where all this money went , but it certainly did not register onscreen .  interestingly enough , director hugh johnson , who makes his big screen debut with this film , was the cinematographer on the 1996 film white squall and the 1997 demi moore vehicle , g . i .  jane ( 6 . 5/10 ) .  
it is with some sad irony that i screened fright night part 2 on the day that one of it's stars , roddy mcdowall passed away at the age of 70 .  mcdowall was one of the most talented and prolific actors in hollywood , having a career that spanned over 60 years and appearing in more than 100 films .  fright night part 2 probably will not be counted among his more memorable roles .  this is really sad considering how good the first fright night film was .  william ragsdale and roddy mcdowall both reprised their roles as the somewhat reluctant vampire killers who seem to be the only ones that realize that vampires walk among us .   ( at least in the movies anyway . )  it has been several years since charlie brewster ( ragsdale ) and b-movie actor turned late night horror film host , peter vincent ( mcdowall ) came face to face with a real live vampire who just happened to be charlie's next door neighbor .  charlie and peter won that battle , but apparently even vampires have relatives who get pissed if you kill members of their family .  apparently charlie's former bloodsucking next door neighbor had a sister who was none too pleased to find out that some kid and an aging actor staked her sibling .  so she decides to exact a little bit of revenge .  this ends up forcing charlie and peter to battle the forces of darkness yet again .  one of the things that made fright night such a success was chris sarandon who played charlie's stylish next door neighbor with a taste for blood .  fright night part 2 tries to duplicate that modern style but it falls sort .  while they are stylish , the vamps in this film just don't have the personality of the undead in the first film .  with the exception of a werewolf who adds some much needed comic relief to a few of the scenes .  one bright spot , speaking from a strictly sexist point of view , is traci lin , who plays charlie's very skeptical girlfriend .  it's really a shame that her career hasn't been better since she made this film .  ragsdale does a fair job in this film , but doesn't give nearly the performance that he did in the original .  roddy mcdowall makes the most with what he is given , which unfortunately isn't much which is a shame because his character was a lot of fun in the original movie .  i guess i would have to say that the first film was a superior product in every way .  the original always left you feeling danger was lurking right around the corner , part 2 had more of the feel of a music video .  never a good thing for a horror film .  another minus for part 2 was the traditional scenes that leave the audience on the edge of their seats waiting for something to jump out of a shadow where very rare .  for that matter , they were almost nonexistent .  if i was going to watch a horror film , this would be far from my first choice .  the first fright night , on the other hand , would be right up near the top of my list .  if i was in the mood for a roddy mcdowall film i'd probably head to the science fiction section of my local video store and rent planet of the apes .  either way fright night part 2 would most likely not enter into the equation .  
sometimes a stellar cast can compensate for a lot of things , and " pushing tin " certainly features some name stars who are going places : billy bob thornton , cate blanchett , angelina jolie , and oh yes john cusack who might not realize it at first , but he's actually the * veteran * among this quartet of fine-looking people .  sometimes a terrific cast like this can compensate for a lackluster screen treatment of an idea that has " hip comedy " written all over it , compensate for workmanlike but uninspired direction , compensate for an obnoxious score that would have anyone but the tone deaf screaming for the exits , compensate for clich ? d characterizations , compensate for embarrassing " you have to be joking " situations .  etc .  in " pushing tin , " thornton , blanchett , jolie , and cusack don't have an earthly .  from the opening sequence the film is in big trouble : squiggly , " quirky " credits , fake-looking passenger planes circling new york , and anne dudley's in-your-ear music making us wonder how she ever got that best original score nomination for " the full monty , " let alone won it .  but i , for one , wasn't ready to walk just yet .  so quickly we descend into a tightly-edited air traffic controllers montage which screams to us in large capital letters these people have a difficult job , yes , what with their frantic , mile-a-minute instructional personas , juggling planes and passenger's lives like some huge , real , mid-air video game .  hip , cool , demonic auctioneer nick " the zone " falzone ( cusack ) is the best in the biz .  of course .  until some hipper , cooler , leather-clad flyboy assist in the guise of russell bell ( thornton ) shows up to challenge falzone's finite air space .  boys will be boys and some heavy duty testosterone starts exuding , then the macho one-upmanship begins .  it doesn't stop with seeing who can juggle three 747s within a cat's whisker of each other .  oh no .  there are some broken hoop dreams , some wanna-see-how-fast-i-can-drives , and then the ultimate showdown : was that my wife i saw you with last night ?  director mike newell ( " four weddings and a funeral " ) must have read a different draft of this script because the one that's being acted out up there between newark , jfk , and la guardia doesn't have an ounce of subtlety , and newell has made some awfully good-and funny-movies before .  the antics of these air traffic controllers will make you cringe .  they'll make you frown in disbelief .  they'll have you constantly looking at your watch .  but wait !  there's still 100 minutes to go ! !  the film's only saving grace is blanchett , whose connie falzone is a spunky , brash , long island housewife who wants to better herself by taking art classes .  this is a wonderful accomplishment for the fine actress who has previously played a red-headed australian gambler ( " oscar and lucinda " ) and a tempestuous british monarch ( " elizabeth " ) .  but she's not enough to save the picture .  thornton looks terrific and performs solidly but his character is a joke .  jolie ( as russell's knock 'em dead wife ) isn't bad , but the up-and-coming actress disappoints by allowing herself to be displayed like a plaything .  cusack cracks gum , dons shades , and acts hip throughout but , like everything else in the film , his performance is forced .  in the last ten minutes or so , for some inexplicable reason , things start coming together and you begin to get a sense of how this film might have been , like the trailer teases .  but it's too little too late .  a fine cast aside , " pushing tin " is nothing more than an embarrassment .  
the most depressing thing about the depressingly pedestrian james bond film " the world is not enough " is its final frame : white letters on a black background proclaiming " james bond will return . "  oh i certainly hope not .  with pierce brosnan in his third and reportedly last go-round as james bond 007 , " the world is not enough " is the best example to date that " 'enough " is enough .  in this , the 19th chapter in the seemingly-endless franchise featuring ian fleming's debonair british secret agent who likes his martinis--and his nemeses--shaken not stirred , the sub-inspired screenwriters have chosen to rehash all of the setups , stunts , and sexy encounters of the previous 18 bond flicks rather than coming up with anything the slightest bit original .  we've got previously-used speedboat chases , ski chases , and sticky situations aboard nuclear submarines .  we've got a couple of hot-to-trot babes without an ounce of acting ability between them .  we've got a post-cold war megalomaniac bent on world domination slash destruction ( here played by a skinheaded robert carlyle with mean , lean panache ) .  and , as has been the case since 1977's " the spy who loved me , " we've got a plot that has nothing whatsoever to do with anything conceived by mr . fleming .  we've also got a main title song by garbage to which , with very little effort , you can fit the lyrics to * both * songs from " tomorrow never dies . "  while originality was never the series' strong suit , the films were almost always fun , with at least some thought going into the nonstop stunts .  i can't think of one memorable set-piece in the entire--and very dull-- " the world is not enough . "  in addition , michael apted ( yes , the respected director of such films as " coal miner's daughter , " " nell , " and the " 28up " documentary series ) takes embarrassing advantage of the full range of bond clich ? s .  you get the " talking killer " plot device--you know the scenario : the bad guy has the good guy at his mercy yet waxes poetic just long enough to die of old age .  and you get a slew of high-priced assassins who can't hit a barn door at 20 paces : in the film's opening minutes ( of an endless 128 ) , bond chases a sultry sniper along the thames and the leather-clad lovely fails to hit bond's souped-up " fishing boat " with a bazooka when he pulls within a few feet of her .  later , she takes off in a hot air balloon with bond dangling from a guy rope beneath her but is still unable to take him out .  these reliable absurdities are more frustrating than usual since there are no distractions other than occasional ads for luxury automobiles , vodka , or credit cards .  in and among the rampant product placements , brosnan grapples with carlyle , " braveheart " 's sophie marceau ( as former kidnap victim slash heiress elektra king ; she's terrible ) , " wild things " ' denise richards ( as a nuclear physicist lord help me ; she's laughable ) , and judi dench as m . dame judi brings the only shred of dignity to a series that has long since jettisoned its self-respect ( about the time roger moore inherited bond's walther ppk ) .  brosnan goes through the motions with the grace and charm you'd expect of the former " remington steele " star , but even he has to be thinking there's more to life than an easy paycheck .  he's given plenty of wiseacre asides to deliver , but only one of them-- " i don't know any doctor jokes " --made me chuckle ( although " i thought christmas only comes once a year " is more in keeping with the series' penchant for grown-worthy puns ) .  
when walt disney pictures announced a live-action feature based on the '60s cartoon series of " mr . magoo , " special interests groups representing the vision-impaired let out a cry of dismay .  mr .  magoo , they claimed , would be an insult to the men and women they represented .  in fact , they were wrong .  mr .  magoo is not just an insult to the blind and near-blind , it's an insult to every human being who has the misfortune to suffer through this dreadfully unfunny , 90 minute atrocity .  it's stating the obvious to remark that disney appears to have run out of original ideas .  look at their roster of 1996 and 1997 releases , and you'll see a shocking list of retreads , including 101 dalmatians , george of the jungle , jungle2jungle , that darn cat ! , flubber , and now mr .  magoo .  the best of these ( george of the jungle ) was mildly entertaining .  the worst , mr .  magoo , exposes just how painful a bad movie experience can be .  the first problem with mr .  magoo is the script .  despite the collaboration of naked gun scribe pat proft , mr .  magoo is comically barren .  from beginning to end , there's not a laugh to be found .  every attempt at humor -- and there are lots of them -- falls flat with an audible thud .  you'd think that out of the dozens of gags jammed into this film , at least a few would work , but that's not the case .  i've had more laughs during ingmar bergman pictures .  then there's leslie nielsen , who looks , sounds , and acts absolutely nothing like the animated character ( memorably voiced by jim backus ) .  in the past , nielsen has proven his comic aptitude with roles in movies like airplane and the naked gun .  lately , however , he has been getting lazy , taking parts in the likes of dracula : dead and loving it , spy hard , and mr .  magoo .  even if nielsen was in top form , it would take an incredible stretch of imagination to see him as magoo ( especially since we're reminded of the original by the short cartoon segments that open and close the film ) , but " top form " is not a phrase i would use to describe his performance here .  this is strictly a take-the-money-and- run operation .  the story , which , like many disney stories , can be described in one long sentence : magoo is the only witness to the theft of a rare jewel from a museum , and , as he is trying to apprehend the thieves on his own , the police mistake him for the robber .  the cops are played by ernie hudson and stephen tobolowsky , who take their lumps early and often .  the bad guys are kelly lynch ( who does a lot of martial arts-type kicking ) , nick chinlund , and malcolm mcdowell ( who has the good sense to look embarrassed ) .  matt keeslar portrays one of magoo's sidekicks -- his nephew , waldo .  the bumbling man's other , more interesting companion is a dog named angus .  most of mr .  magoo's humor comes in the form of failed slapstick .  the cartoon violence level in this film doesn't approach that of home alone 3 or flubber , but it's still pretty acute , with characters getting hit on the head with sledgehammers and knocked off snowy precipices .  there's a non-violent bit with magoo preparing a chicken dinner that could have been funny if it was handled better , but , compared to mr . bean's recent , similar misadventure , it doesn't hold up well .  then there is the series of lame jokes that result from magoo's near blindness , such as the occasion when he mistakes a wild animal for a baby .  i'm willing to cut director stanley tong a little slack .  tong , a hong kong film maker trying to break into the hollywood market , has helmed several jackie chan movies , including first strike , rumble in the bronx , and supercop .  his chief talent , that of choreographing martial arts fights , is wasted here ( despite some high kicking by kelly lynch ) .  like john woo ( hard target ) and ringo lam ( maximum risk ) before him , it appears that tong has been consigned to the purgatory of making a bad movie as his entry into the american mainstream .  it is worth noting that , unlike many disney films which hold a perverse appeal for the under-10 crowd while driving parents to distraction , mr .  magoo appears to bore viewers of all ages .  the screening i attended was wall-to-wall kids , and , for the most part , they didn't seem to be enjoying themselves .  when the film was over , i asked one little girl what she thought of it .  her pained expression confirmed the adage that a picture can indeed be worth a thousand words .  mr .  magoo is the kind of movie that should be rejected by any potential viewer , sight unseen .  
david spade has a snide , sarcastic sense of humor that works perfectly on the tv sitcom just shoot me .  it also served as a good showcase for him when he co-starred , opposite the late chris farley , in tommy boy and black sheep .  lost and found marks the comedian's first attempt at going solo in a movie , and it also reveals that when spade doesn't have a reliable back-up system , his brand of humor seems more desperate than one may expect .  david spade is not the problem with lost and found .  he plays dylan ramsey , the sweet main character , to the best of his abilities .  the story revolves around dylan's obsessions with his beautiful new neighbour , lila dubois ( sophie marceau , from braveheart ) , and her terrier named jack .  dylan believes that the best way to a woman's heart is through her dog .  and so he kidnaps jack , planning to stage a fake rescue , in hope to win lila over .  there are three good things about lost and found .  the first is spade .  the second is sophie marceau , a lovely actress who's been planted into the wrong movie .  lastly , there's the dog , who is used here in a similar context to puffy from there's something about mary .  unfortunately , director jeff pollack finds more humor in putting jack through a cycle in the drier than he does with simply making him look cute .  this kind of physical humor is dead .  pollack does everything but beat the poor pooch with a baseball bat to get laughs , and this procedure is cheap , unfunny and resoundingly cruel .  this is where i start to get fuzzy .  also in this unusual blend is ( apparently ) a sweet-natured love story between dylan and lila .  given the mean-spirited comedy that the movie is obviously striving for , i found this hard to swallow .  and , why does dylan even deserve someone like lila , after kidnapping her precious dog and putting it through such pain ?  predictably , lost and found opts for a happy ending , one that feels so sentimental , gooey , and rings so false that it sets off a siren in your head that makes you feel a bit cheated .  david spade ( who also co-wrote the movie ) tries hard , so very hard , to make this project amusing .  there are some choice scenes that are quite funny , but the movie is only sporadically funny .  patrick bruel plays the stock character of rene , the pompous jerk who also wants to win lila over , with his good looks and money .  jon lovitz and martin sheen are welcome additions in two tiny supporting roles .  despite a few positive attributes , lost and found just doesn't work .  if you're searching for an enjoyable romantic-comedy , you could do far better than this obvious , misguided failure that shows a blatant disregard for what it's trying to present .  
9 : its pathetic attempt at " improving " on a shakespeare classic .  8 : its just another piece of teen fluff .  7 : kids in high school are not that witty .  6 : the wittiness is not witty enough .  5 : the comedy is not funny .  4 : the acting is poor .  3 : the music .  2 : the poster .  1 : its worse than she's all that !  10=a classic 9=borderline classic 8=excellent 7=good 6=better than average 5=average 4=disappointing 3=poor 2=awful 1=a crap classic  
sometimes i wonder just what the censors are thinking .  take this film , " naked killer " , among it's ingredients are heavy doses of violence , rape sequences , straight and lesbian sex scenes and what our system calls " coarse language " .  but what do those intelligent people at the censorship bureau choose to remove in case someone will get offended ?  one word - penis .  that's it .  in spite of everything else in the movie the one thing that the censors decide is too much is " penis . " .  it really restores you're faith in the system , huh ?  anyway , that's just a side point .  when naked killer was released in the local independent cinemas around melbourne , it was advertised ad nausuem as a hip , cool , controversial thriller .  what they forgot to mention was that it isn't very good .  the plot involves male cop tinam ( simon yam ) , investigating a series of brutal murders .  while getting a haircut he meets and finds himself attracted to a girl named kitty ( chingmy yau ) , who , after extracting revenge on the man who killed her father , falls in with professional killer sister cindy ( svenwara madoka ) .  realising kitty has potential , cindy decides to train kitty in several unusual and ridiculous ways and gives her a new identity .  however in the course of his investigation tinam ( who believed kitty had disappeared ) , runs into her again , but isn't quite sure if it's her .  to complicate matters the actual serial killlers , princess and baby , who a former students of cindy , and have been told to kill their old master and her new student .  from then the action ensues . . .  all in all , this is not a well done movie .  the script is awful , the direction all over the place , the editing is jerky and confusing and the subtitling is surprisingly poor .  however the are a few stand alone pieces that do entertain .  the shoot out in the car park is almost woo-like in adrenaline .  the fight scenes are energetic and i guess it must get a few points for trying something a little different .  let me put this way , if you like action - get something else , if you like strong women in movies - get something else , if you have do decide between this and " black cat " for your hong kong female action - don't get either .  even for curiosity value it just isn't worth it .  let's face it - if ever the was a movie that became popular on it's subject alone , this is it .  
after seeing blaze and driving miss daisy , i was ready for some mindless fun--oh , maybe something like tango & cash .  maybe not !  mindless fun is one thing , but brain-dead slop is another matter altogether .  tango & cash has " lowest common denominator " written all over it .  the movie stars sylvester stallone and kurt russell as rival undercover cops in l . a . russell plays cash , a reckless slob who dresses in jeans and tee shirts .  stallone plays tango , a wealthy investor who works on the force strictly for the thrill of it ; he doesn't need the money .  in an effort to change his image , stallone goes for a yuppie , gq look in the film , wearing spectacles and three piece suits .  the two detectives reluctantly become partners after they are framed for murder and have to break out of prison to clear their names .  tango & cash is unbearably noisy .  for starters , there's harold faltermeyer's annoying synthesized score , which gets old after four notes .  to make matters worse , the filmmakers seem to think that when it comes to loud explosions and screeching cars , the more the merrier .  in fact , the movie begins with not one but two car chases .  there's nothing like a good old car chase to introduce the characters in a movie .  screenwriter randy feldman's brain must have gone to mush from watching too many cop shows on tv .  his shockingly stupid screenplay undermines anything and everything the movie has going for it , such as stallone's efforts to convince you that tango is an intellectual .  in a movie with the iq level of an amoeba , even a great actor is going to have trouble looking intelligent--and stallone is no lawrence olivier .  it's hard to imagine anyone reading feldman's script and thinking , " i want to be in this movie . "  the film's plot doesn't have one original bone in its body , and--again--you have to point your finger at the screenwriting .  feldman's story line succumbs to every crime thriller cliche in the book , making tango & cash altogether generic and predictable .  they simply could have called it " action movie . "  every character , every twist and turn , is stolen from television or from other movies .  adding insult to injury , tango & cash is about as believable as a " road runner " cartoon .  action movies don't have to be realistic , but they should absorb you enough so that you're not thinking about the lack of realism .  the only artistic aspect of tango & cash is the cinematography .  there are some spectacular shots , especially during the rainy nighttime prison break in which tango and cash slide to safety on electrical wires .  the film's main draw is the chemistry between stallone and russell .  unfortunately , their relationship rarely progresses past macho competition as they endlessly bicker about who packs more meat in his pants .  the dialogue consists of nothing but one-liners , and consequently the attempts at character development are embarrassing .  it's a shame because with a workable screenplay , russell and stallone could have turned tango & cash into a charming " lethal weaponesque " adventure .  tango & cash tries to maintain a light tone , and you do laugh about once every five minutes .  seeing russell in drag is the movie's funniest moment , but you probably already have seen it in the commercials .  furthermore , the light tone does not sit well against the relentlessly brutal violence .  machine guns and torture generally don't mix well with comedy .  jack palance appears in tango & cash doing what he does best : playing a sleazy , conniving villain .  his character , however , is run-of-the-mill , except for his strange obsession with mice .  like many movie villains , palance likes to play games .  in fact , he sets a ridiculously elaborate trap for tango and cash , a trap which sends the two detectives to prison so they can be beaten and electrocuted by some meanies in the boiler room .  you have to wonder why palance doesn't just shoot the detectives in the head !  the story would crumble if any of the characters were to do anything intelligent .  teri hatcher plays stallone's sister and russell's love-interest , and she is just as pretty as can be .  but regrettably , hatcher's acting is not on par with her exceptional beauty .  every time she opens her mouth , you cringe ; corny dialogue and atrocious acting are always a fatal combination .  there's really very little , if anything , to recommend in the film .  and , more to the point , tango definitely isn't worth a penny of your cash--so don't bother .  
in " the 13th warrior , " arab poet ahmed ibn fahdlan ( antonio banderas ) finds himself kicked out of baghdad for feeling up the king's old lady .  with his translator ( screen legend omar sharif in a small role ) , ahmed heads north to act as ambassador to the northmen ( vikings ) .  he finds a group of warriors mourning the loss of their king .  a messenger soon arrives from another kingdom requesting assistance .  a soothsayer says that thirteen warriors must answer the summons , twelve northmen and one outsider .  thus , ahmed becomes the " 13th warrior . "  on the trip , ahmed manages to learn the vikings' language by listening to their fireside conversations .  a bit far-fetched , it's true , but we have to swallow it if this flick is going to manage a few lines of dialogue amidst the grunting .  ahmed , who's called " ibn " by the vikings , forms friendships with herger the joyous ( dennis storh ? i ) and the viking leader buliwyf ( vladimir kulich ) .  when they arrive in the other kingdom , the thirteen warriors discover that they're facing an army of supernatural cannibals that live up in the caves .  hereafter , most of the movie is battle scenes : the cannibals attack the vikings , the vikings attack the cannibals , the cannibals attack the .   .   .  well , you get the idea .  just to add some action , there's also a viking vs . viking duel .  other movies insert scenes between the fights ; these scenes are called character development .  i suspect that " the 13th warrior " had a better script at one time and that it fell through the cracks because of the tag-team direction .  the movie started off in the hands of john mctiernan ( you'll notice a lot of similarities between " warrior " and mctiernan's " predator , " including the chittering jungle sounds ) .  somewhere along the line , mctiernan bailed and michael crichton took over .  crichton , whose novel " eaters of the dead " is the basis for " warrior , " has directed a small assortment of goofy science-fiction " thrillers " : " westworld , " " coma , " " looker , " " runaway . "  their result of their consecutive efforts is a murky and pointless movie .  perhaps what " the 13th warrior " needs more than anything else is a villain .  the " eaters of the dead " are a faceless mob in blackface .  they have no personality , and by the end they don't even seem particularly threatening .  the audience has no target toward which to channel its aggression .  mctiernan should know about the importance of an interesting villain ; it was his " die hard " that made villains seem fun and attracted big-name stars to the evil roles in action films .   " the 13th warrior " suffers from a lack of vision .  it wants to be " predator " meets " braveheart " meets " the magnificent seven " meets " dances with wolves . "  with so many competing goals , all it can do is echo what it might have been .  it might have been a satisfying action film .  it might have been a beautifully-rendered medieval epic .  it might have been a thought-provoking examination of the meeting of cultures .  what a shame it turned out to be nothing in particular .  bottom line : if you want to see antonio swing his sword , rent " the mask of zorro . "  
there isn't much good about this movie .  not much i can say about the acting , directing , or writing that would make you consider seeing this movie .  so i'll get my one good comment out of the way , at least joel schuemacher ( batman & robin ) didn't direct it or it would be titled " technicolor city " .  in fact there is nothing colorful about this movie , its dark and depressingly gloomy right down to the bitter end .  the plot has a tendency to be interesting , but all that passes while your laughing at the ridiculous things thrown into what could have been a fascinating movie .  the plot is impossible to explain due to how senseless it gets , so i will just touch on the bare minimum .  john murdoch ( rufus sewell ) awakes in the bathtub of a cheap hotel , only to find out he has forgotten everything .  john must find out who he is before the " strangers " ( a . k . a .  mind erasing aliens ) find him and use him for their own evil conspiracy .  during the film some interesting points are raised about human individuality , and the existence of inherently evil people .  any of these points however are completely " erased " from your mind as you watch the actors stumble through the dreadful script .  as i mentioned earlier , nothing but the atmosphere is right in this film .  the acting is bland , and since there is virtually no character development no one seems to care .  the special effects are low budget and some even hilariously fake , a sign of a true " b-movie " .  the direction is poor and there is little continuity , not that you would expect it in a movie switching realities constantly .  lastly the script is weak and has no concept of reality , and doesn't deserve to have the word " science " in science-fiction .  if i haven't got my point across , i'll say it more plainly : this is a bad movie .  lets hope the next movie by alex " i wish i was tim burton " proyas is at least tolerable .  
 " varsity blues " is the best film of 1999 thus far .  unfortunately , it is also the first film i have seen from 1999 .  it is another one of those small-town sports movies that involves a flawed , but good-heartedfrom 1999 .  it is another one of those small-town sports movies that involves a flawed , but good-hearted protagonist ; a rough and meanspirited coach ; and the " big game . "  by the end , will the underdog overcome great odds and triumph ?  will everyone in the town turn against the coach ?  will the team win the climactic game ?  do cats bathe themselves regularly ?  the so-called " hero " in question is john moxin ( james van der beek ) , a senior at west canaan high school who plays for the varsity football team , but is really just hoping to get a scholarship at brown university so that he can get out of the dead-end town .  at least he's got the right idea , since west canaan , texas is portrayed in the film as , frankly , pathetic , with the whole town treating the weekly football games as the second coming .  heck , in one scene , the front page of the town's newspaper is proclaiming about the west canaan badgers' big win the night before .  when the team's star quarterback is severely injured , tearing the ligaments in his leg , john finds himself taking over as the team's leader , but his few minutes of glory do not last long , as he begins to have problems with his girlfriend ( amy smart ) when she discovers he spent an evening with another girl ( ali larter ) .  and after staying out all night with his drinking buddies at a strip joint ( all of the teenagers in the film are portrayed as raging alcoholics ) , the team loses their second-to-last game , putting john at feuds with the coach ( jon voight who , like gary oldman , is overstaying his welcome in the typecasted role as the " bad guy " ) .  worse yet , the coach is threatening to ruin john's scholarship chances if the badgers don't win their final game .  the plotting of " varsity blues " is as old as the hills , and contains every cliche in the book .  admittedly , i was never exactly bored while i was watching it , but i hasten to add that i was rarely ever entertained .  throughout , all i could really think of is how virtually the same exact story had been filmed with a great deal more thoughtfulness and maturity in 1983's " all the right moves . "  one of the biggest problems i had with the film is how little of interest any of the characters actually were , least of all certainly not john , who , played by van der beek ( of tv's " dawson's creek " ) , is pretty much a bore without any engaging qualities .  while i probably shouldn't blame this on van der beek , since the inauspicious and " by-the-numbers " screenplay by w . peter iliff isn't of any help , he is still certainly not in the league of tom cruise in " all the right moves . "  the story revolving around john , meanwhile , is extemely thin throughout , particularly for its 104-minute running time , and it alternates between uninspired comic relief ( as in when the students see their sex education teacher working as a stripper at the club ) and heavy-handed melodrama .  the romance between john and his girlfriend had the potential to be an adequate subplot , but we also learned very little about her , which is unfortunate since amy smart , whom i don't think i've seen before in past films , is probably the only character written with any sort of intelligence .  smart does not allow her character to become the " passive girlfriend , " instead coming off as a young woman with her own ideas and opinions .  it's too bad the camera didn't linger on her long enough so we could hear some of those thoughts .  the adult characters probably fare the worse of any , since they all must play residents of a dim-witted town that cares about nothing but football .  john's relationship with his parents can also be telegraphed far in advance .  his father is set on him becoming a football player at a university , but john doesn't want any part of that .  his mother stands beside her " big , strong husband " and is a passive female .  finally , jon voight plays the stock bully coach character and he does nothing to make the thankless role any more than one-dimensional .  saving " varsity blues " from being a total washout are a few amusing sequences , including one set in the sex education class , which did get a laugh out of me .  the scenes of playing football were well-shot and thankfully didn't overstay their welcome , as many sports films fall victim to .  but leaving the theater , the question i had in my mind was why did this film need to be made ?  i seem to be asking this question quite a lot lately , since the same old stories seem to be cranking out of hollywood .  do we really need another high-school sports film ?  no , we don't , and certainly not one of this low-caliber , which felt like a cut-and-paste job of spare parts from much better , but similar , films .   " varsity blues , " no doubt is the first one , however , to include an earnest scene in which one of the characters is only wearing whipped cream on their private parts .  
for a film touted as exploring relationships and black sexuality , trois is surprisingly tame .  despite it's lurid subject matter and it's passing nod to fatal attraction , it moves along with flat , uninspired dialogue as it sets up a surprising climax that tries mightily to overthrow the considerable dead weight of the rest of the film .  freshly moved to atlanta , jermaine ( dourdan ) and his wife , jasmine ( moore ) , have the trappings of a perfect life .  they have a beautiful house in suburbia .  jermaine is a lawyer on the fast track at his firm .  jasmine is his supportive wife , who is finishing up her college degree .  in an opening montage via a home video of the pair , we see the unremarkable story of their marriage and early marital triumphs .  this is a couple that has it all .  into this eden slithers the lure of lust .  despite his outward appearance , jermaine reveals himself as selfish and covetous of his wife more as a possession than a person .  a glimmer of his true nature peeks out during an early sex scene with his wife as he goes about his business , oblivious to jasmine's concerns .  we also find that he has been relentlessly asking jasmine to participate in a menage- a-trois , much to jasmine's dismay .  as jermaine puts it , " don't you want to be sexually free ? "  jermaine shares his desire with co-worker terrence ( smith ) , who obligingly sets jermaine up with a woman who might be interested in just such an encounter .  the woman , jade ( palmer ) is a direct counterpoint to jasmine .  jade , at one point was a college student , too .  unlike jasmine , she found herself pregnant , dropped out of school and now struggles to make ends meet .  to further reinforce their differences , it's revealed that jade is involved in a custody battle over her son .  inevitably , through liquor and a touch of duplicity on jermaine's part , the forbidden act is consummated .  the aftermath of the encounter sidesteps into fatal attraction territory as acts of violence are perpetrated upon jermaine's property with the hint that the violence may escalate .  by this point , trois shows itself to be a soap opera without the requisite melodrama : a fatal attraction without the social significance .  the exploration of relationships is strictly superficial and stereotypical .  jermaine comes off as insincere , sexually driven and selfish .  jasmine is bland and subservient .  jade comes off a bit sympathetically , but that is negated by her moral bankruptcy .  yet another tale of a sexually aggressive " dog " of a man who imposes his will upon his accommodating , innocent mate .  the last 10 minutes will undoubtly throw you a curve , but by this point , will you even care ?  if the rest of the movie was as dynamic as the ending , perhaps there could have been some freshness to it .  as it stands , trois is pretty standard fare .  
 " mission to mars " is one of those annoying movies where , in the middle of the movie , you get the sneaking suspicion that the reason the trailer looks so good is because they showcased all the best parts of the movie : all five minutes of it .   " mission " * does * give you payoff ; but when it does come , it's too little , too late .   " mission " has some good ideas , but they get lost in the unbearably boring delivery , dime-a-dozen dialogue , and spate of good actors wasted in cardboard-cutout roles .  i'm sure the director and writers were very proud of each hallmark moment they came up with , so they stretch each dramatic moment out like silly putty until it loses all its charm .  glances don't communicate any deeper emotions just because you draw them out for five hours on end .  the film spends an hour on this kind of stuff , building to its climax .  a lot of it is a cliched glorification of family relationships , marriage , friendship , unite we stand divided we fall kind of crap .  there are some spectacular special effects sequences in this film , and i give it points for trying to stay true to the science i know ( trying is the key word here ) .  the sequence with the martian demonstrating their history is oddly beautiful and touching , but as mentioned by then we're so sick of the goddamn thing we want the movie to be over .  great design , good intentions , but no cigar .  if you're not a die hard sci-fi , fx or jerry o'connell fan ( his character is the only one who has some semblance of character ) , don't waste your eight bucks on this .  and what the hell , tim robbins died halfway through the movie , in a stupid way too .  that's just unforgiveable .  
my friend here in film school just made a two minute-long film for one of his classes that includes a staged anal rape scene , done by two guys and shot on the shadow of the incident , with a banana being used as the instrument of penetration .  as sick as this all is , watching it is one of the most admittingly hysterical moments i've ever witnessed .  sure , it may be in bad taste , but what the hell is bad taste other than something that may be offensive to some but is riotously amusing to the rest ?  then there's " caligula . "  this film features incest , necrophilia , beastuality , anal rape , homosexual felatio of both sexes , elaborate and lengthy orgies , a greased-up fist forced up a man's rear , wine poured down a man who's had his urinary tracts tied off , a penis chopped off and fed to hungry dogs , etc , etc , etc . this could very well be a respectable film , and if could have been had the following not occurred : a ) the events were graphically shot in clear view ; b ) the tone was not that of trying to shock comically but to , well , show " historical accuracy ; " c ) the film was a 20 million dollar production with lavish sets , a rather impressive cast , and a whopping 2 1/2 hour running time .  produced and funded by none other than bob guccione , owner of penthouse magazine , " caligula " comes across as the most hysterical dramatic picture since " plan 9 from outer space " because underneath there's a sense that everything this film is doing is not only accurate and justified , but also brilliantly entertaining .  after all , it's not really the fact that this film features the aforementioned disgusting moments , but that it actually believes in them as dramatic weaponry .  no film should be discarded because its content , because film is never about what it's about , it's about how it's about ( as the old cliche goes ) .  those who bash this film for content are glancing over the biggest and most obvious problem with " caligula , " and that's that it's nothing but overdramaticized bullshit from start to finish , without a second of credibility in its mammoth running time .   " caligula " allegedly tells the true story of the evil roman emporer of the same name , a man who was so insanely decadent that his assasination came as a blessing . . . or  so i guess , even though almost every single roman emporer was assasinated as well and for much the same reasons .  the film opens on the wrong note , of course , with a quote from mark appearing before any image graces the screen , using the over-used passage " what shall it profit a man if he should gain the whole world an dlose his own soul , " depite the fact that the opening scene of the film is of the emporer before he was an emporer , fucking around with his own sister in a field ( i suppose if one has to lose their soul , one has to have a soul in the first place ) .  the plot is so incomprehensibly done that all i or anyone else can make out of it is that caligula ( disastrously played by the great malcom mcdowell , a performance that does the opposite that his performance in " a clockwork orange " did ) is next in line for the throne but can't wait for the current emporer , tiberius ( peter o' toole - ditto , only for his performance in " lawrence of arabia " ) , his grandfather , to die . . . so he kills him and ascends to the throne .  then he abuses his position , marries a woman ( helen mirren , who retains her dignity as an actor by not exactly acting ) so he doesn't just have to sleep with his sister ( a dreadful teresa ann savoy , there to be pretty , naked , and willing to hop in the sack with mac or anyone he asks her to hop in with ) , abuses his position a little more , a little more , and a little more , and then , i believe , invades england , then is killed off .  the filler , instead of recounting his life , is supposed to be , as guccione claims , the ultimate portrait of decadent pagan rome , complete with orgies , vicious deaths , and lots of nudity .  but instead of being the historical accurate film it really really wants to be , it instead becomes guccione's twisted masturbatory image of what it could be like .  oh , isn't it great that they just loved having sex ?  and that they killed people so disgustingly ?  and wouldn't it be great if i could make a couple bucks by selling this shit off as accuracy even though it's so blatantly real bad porn that i've completely convinced myself that it's not .  i mean , why not just show a roman orgy when i can spend a good ten minutes examining every single facet that makes it up .  and it's not just that it's disgusting or vile or whatever adjective you want to use to describe this film - it's that in a film where the entire feel it's going for isn't felt , it's also the sloppiest expensive movie of all time .  the sets are lavish , but so blatantly innacurate that i wonder if no historian wanting to have his name on this film explains this .  but that doesn't matter since the cinematography is so dark that you wonder if a light meter was used at all , making this not only dark and ugly , but just plain dark .  the camera operation is also the worst i've ever seen in my entire life .  not only does this film hold the record for the most unnecessary zooms in one single shot ever , but often the camera will lose its subjects and pan around till they find them , then have them out of focus .  the editing is so sloppy that some scenes are absolutely impossible to follow .  there is no writer to speak of ( what the hell does it mean that it's " adapted from an original screenplay by gore vidal ? " ) , but nevertheless , the dialogue is shit , so laughably bad that i can't in good faith believe that anyone with an iq over 5 could say them with a straight face ( my favorite being the line when caligula inquires the doctor about the health of the dying tiberius : " he could go at any moment , but with care , he could last a year or so . " )  the music in this film is mostly prokofiev and khachaturian ( they use his gorgeous " adagio of spartacus and phrygia , " ad nauseum ) , used in an attempt to give the film some emotion , but instead feels as if it was shipped in from elsewhere .  the orgy scenes ( and one infamous lesbo scene between penthouse pets lori wagner and aneeka dilorenzo ) are the result of reshoots by guccione himself , which are so obviously removed from everything else in this film that it only adds to the embrassment ( every five seconds or so , the film cuts to random nudity , as if it was afraid its audience would forget this film is rated " x " ) .  john gielgud represents the only voice of sanity , walking around in his brief role as if he was constantly the mantra , " i'm going to kill my agent , i'm going to kill my agent . . . "  and so on and so on , for over 2 1/2 hours , making " caligula " about as exciting and enriching as a three hour college lecture class and twice as deliriously annoying .  guccione , in his pursuit of historical accuracy has instead made a film that is such a painstaking , arduous task to watch in its entirety that i doubt anyone can sit through an hour of it without irreversible psychological damage .  throughout the entire film , the presence of guccione is easily felt , as if he were standing there at the edge of the screen , pretentiously looking down upon us saying " look what i can get away with !  and if you don't like this , then you're a prig , and worse than that , you know nothing about history ! "  uh huh .  there's a clear difference between historical accuracy and doing something that's artistically good .  a film which showed roman decadence as something that was perhaps liberating for some but could not last - that would probably make for a good film .  but using historical accuracy as a licence to get away with any kind of disgusting-for-disgustingness'-sake acts is total , total bullshit , and all i can say is that guccione and the makers of this film have lost any kind of touch with either entertainment or eroticism , and have developed a pathetic and sadistic taste for both , judging from this film .  there's a film that came out in 1989 called " the cook , the thief , his wife , and her lover , " a magnifcent film by legendary cult director peter greenaway ( also starring helen mirren ) , which deals with graphic sex , heartstopping violence and gore , and even a little cannibalism for good measure .  that film not only never patronized its viewers , but also handled them in a way that was shocking , yes , but also , in a bizarre way , entertaining and totally involving .  there were real characters there in a real situation , and best of all passion and just the right amount of restraint as not to get off on the fact that it's going to be offensive to many .  that film achieved everything it wanted to do , and has since retained a status as one of those cult films that is not only popular but actualy good .  and it's everything " caligula " might have been but , alas , wasn't .  
remember back in the mid 1990s when crime and macabre movies were all the rage ?   " pulp fiction " and " fargo " both managed to get oscar nominations for the best picture , and not surprisingly , a slew of rip-offs followed in the years thereafter .  that fad seems to be over but here comes christopher mcquarrie writing and directing " the way of the gun " that at first glance looks like another of those wanna-be's but upon closer inspection doesn't look like anything comprehendable .  it's a crime story so wrapped up in its own little world it has a claustrophobic atmosphere - a film that won't allow the story much room to expand outside its handful of characters and somehow still manages to turn a simple premise into something so complex its ridiculous .  complexity should come as no surprise to anyone who's familiar with mcquarrie , he wrote " the usual suspects , " which has become a cult favorite despite little critical acclaim .  that film had a great story and was well directed but had such an elaborate , confusing screenplay it leaves many viewers scratching their heads after repeated viewings .  you have to wonder if mcquarrie really had everything mapped out or if he was going for the hollywood idea that " if it's really confusing and about criminals and cops that makes it fascinating . "  with " the way of the gun " mcquarrie seems to be capitalizing on the same idea , but this time the story is far less commercial - a shame because maybe that would have helped .  the film tells the story of two drifters with no ambition and barely a reason to live but aren't hell-bent on death either ( played by ryan phillipie and benecio del toro ) .  they get lucky when they hear about a scheme between a big-shot exec guy and his trophy wife who are going to have a baby through in vitro fertilization .  they figure they can kidnap the surrogate mother ( played by juliette lewis ) and get a nice ransom .  along the way we continually learn of the shady dealings between the exec , his wife , their hired goons and the " bag man " ( played by james caan - the only actor in the film who looks like he knows what he's doing ) .  the exec is some kind of money launderer so he obviously can't call the authorities for help .  his goons and the bag man are on the kidnappers' trail and each make different offers to get the mother back .  the exec's son is a doctor who also gets pulled into the fray and wants to make sure his patient is all right .  meanwhile each of these characters has something hidden up their collective sleeves and the double-crosses , secret love affairs and torrid pasts come as no surprise even though little of it has any relevance at all .  mcquarrie doesn't know the meaning of the word simple .  he seems to be more interested in showing us how clever he is than making a good movie .  everything has to be complicated and confusing , so much so that it's to the point of surrealism .  nothing is what it seems in this reality , it's one of those movies where you get dropped right into the middle of the criminal world and are expected to know most of the industry's rules and regulations .  every scene with caan's character exemplifies this perfectly - the kidnappers already know who he is and even chat with him , getting into conversations about " the business " and how it works and we're hardly given a clue as to what they're talking about .  these characters are probably supposed to be great criminal sketches but they're more like ideas ripped-off from sketches found in david mamet's trash .  no one here really acts like a real person , and the story is even further removed from reality .  it's like a dream without any appeal .  take the opening scene for example ; the phillipe and del toro characters are in a parking lot across the street from a bar or a club counting their money and stuff .  they sit on a brand-new mercedes and the car alarm goes off , the owner is waiting in line and yells at them to get away from his car but they don't move .  the guy and his loud-mouth , potty-mouth girlfriend and about 20 other people cross the street and gang up on them .  you'd think phillipe ? and del toro are ? going to pull out guns and scare them away but they don't , instead phillipe throws one punch and the two get beat down by a mob .  there's a lot of things i didn't understand about this scene : first of all the owner of the mercedes isn't some yuppie or old rich snob , he's like a hippie straight out of the 60s .  secondly , the two main characters seem to believe that they can actually take on the mob unarmed .  lastly , it serves no purpose in the long run because later in the film the two are packing more artillery than a small country's army .  if they were suicidal they wouldn't have gone on the kidnapping job in the first place ( and where they get all those guns is never explained either ) .  there's a lot more i could pick apart about this film but that would be an exercise in futility .  what it all comes down to is that nothing here is what it seems - which would be great if this movie were about pretty much any other story than what it is .  absolutely none of the characters are likable or believable .  and it's all coated with a thin layer of black comedy which is good for a chuckle here and there but this film is definitely not a flat-out black comedy and its use of such seems like a desperate attempt to kill screen time .  with any film you see , whether you like it or not , you can at least understand what the appeal was to it , why someone would want to make it and why someone would want to see it .  i can't say either for " the way of the gun , " because it has very little going for it and i can't imagine anyone intelligently defending it .  
_dirty_work_ has a premise of deliciously mean-spirited potential .  mitch weaver ( norm macdonald ) and his lifelong best friend sam mckenna ( artie lange ) are losers in life : they were constantly picked on in school , and now they cannot hold regular jobs .  but as the trailer goes , " there is one thing mitch weaver is good at--revenge . "  so he and sam parlay their unmatched skill in getting-even schemes into a marketable revenge-for-hire business called dirty work inc .  this should be the groundwork for a wonderfully wicked black comedy , but for a film called _dirty_work_ , what ensues is rather clean of spirit .  in fact , what makes mitch and sam start up their business is not a giddy desire to give bullies a taste of their own medicine , but rather a more sappy reason : sam's father ( jack warden ) needs a heart transplant , and in order for him to move at the top of the recipient list , his compulsively betting doctor ( chevy chase ) asks the guys for $50 , 000 to pay off his bookie .  so for all the scheming that goes on , beneath every underhanded plot is--gasp ! --a  heart , which undercuts the inherent nastiness of the premise .  not that there isn't a lot of nastiness on display--there is , but of a different sort .  there are frequent sexual references , most prominently in the form of prostitutes and sam's impotent father's ongoing lust for them .  and for a film rated pg-13 , director bob saget ( yes , that bob saget , of _full_house_ and _america's_funniest_home_videos_ fame ) and writers frank sebastiano , fred wolf , and macdonald himself , stretch the boundaries of good taste rather far--arguably a bit too much so ( was not one , but two separate instances of sodomy between animals really necessary ? ) .  but the issue , of course , is not so much of taste as it is humor--as in , is it funny or not ?  the answer is a resounding no .  it's not that macdonald isn't a funny guy .  he was one of the more consistently funny performers on _saturday_night_live_ before his much-talked-about firing , and his dry brand of smartass wit translates well to the big screen ; it also doesn't hurt that he's a natural , likable screen presence .  he is able to give some of his lines a nice acid touch , but , for the most part , the oneliners , as written , are flat , and the broad slapstick gags just don't work ( one running gag has him being literally tossed out of buildings--a real riot ) .  still , macdonald's few shining moments are just about the only moments the film has .  the late chris farley , as hysterical as he ever was , is amusing in a cameo role , but , as a whole , the supporting players are amateurish and seemingly free from any directorial guidance .  saget tries to juice up the proceedings with kitschy cameos by gary coleman , adam sandler , and john goodman , but their minimal novelty value cannot prevent _dirty_work_ from sputtering to the end of its brief 81-minute running time .  the film closes on a sad note of desperation , an indulgent reel of outtakes from which only those involved in the production would derive any amusement .  come to think of it , i cannot imagine anyone but those involved in the production to find much amusement in the entirety of _dirty_work_ .  
america's favorite homicidal plaything takes a wicked wife in " bride of chucky , " and their unholy matrimony is something old , nothing new .  the burning question on the minds of most moviegoers , however , has nothing to do with nuptial specifics or even how the movie stacks up , but rather whether or not the duo gets down and dirty on their blood-soaked honeymoon .  the answer is a sick-and-twisted yes - and viewers are treated to a shadowy glimpse of some hot-enough-to-melt-rubber ( or at least singe it ) lovin' .  guess they're anatomically correct .  chucky ( again voiced by brad dourif ) , of course , is the star of the " child's play " series , a my buddy-type doll possessed by the spirit of a slain serial killer .  in " bride , " the plot ( heh ) picks up with his girlfriend tiffany ( jennifer tilly ) resurrecting chucky's remains ( he was blown up at the end of " child's play 3 " ) with the help of a black arts manual called " voodoo for dummies . "  silly mortal .  before long , she's also been reduced to shin-high figurine status , and the plastic incarnations of these one-time lunatic lovebirds hit the road to scope out some potential new human bodies .  the rest of this rocky horror puppet show plays out as tiff and the chuckster stalk a young couple ( nick stabile and katherine heigl ) with conjugal plans of their own , leading them towards a new jersey grave where a magical , soul-transferring amulet allegedly lies in wait .  along the way , our murderous barbie and ken go through post-marriage motions similar to any given pair of newlyweds - bicker , argue , kiss and make up .  but when they squabble over who's going to do the dishes , watch out .  hey , even faux people have got to work through their problems .  director ronny yu keeps the mayhem flashy and stages an inventive scene or two , but not even visual flair can make up for the fact that these creepy kewpies are neither scary nor menacing .  when one of them charges , it's nothing a good forward punt couldn't take care of .  and when a climactic chase scene is needed , one of the dim-bulb protagonists must _pick_chucky_up_ so the demonic toy can force his hostage to run at gunpoint .  throw in some silly casualties and a ridiculous ending ( will " son of chucky " be next ? ) and this is a bizarrely bad 89-minutes at the movies .  as is the thing to do in post- " scream " slasher cinema , don mancini's screenplay slathers on the in-jokes and genre-parody .  but little of the humor succeeds , proving self-reference can be completely worthless when it lacks bite .  to be fair , though , most of " bride of chucky " is on auto-pilot , so it's not quite right to single out one misfired aspect of the film .  similarly shaky , the acting ranges from screeching camp to boring bland , the effects aren't that special and the story is one big groaner .  here's hoping chucky and his entire clan - past , present and future - rest in peace .  
this is the first film in what would become the most successful series of horror films of all time .  a fair warning to those of you who might be inclined to watch this movie for the first appearance of everyone's favorite goalie-mask-wearing homicidal maniac .  jason , the guy who single handedly controlled the overpopulation problem around the crystal lake area , doesn't start his quest to find the most interesting household item with which to kill someone until the sequel .  while he does have a small role in this film , we the audience have to depend on another blood thirsty maniac to rack up the body count .  the plot , like every other friday the 13th movie goes something like this -- crazed killer murders as many unsuspecting teenagers as he/she/it possibly can in the space of a 90 minute movie .  the reasons that the afore mentioned unsuspecting teenagers come into contact with the bloodthirsty killer are usually of little importance to the story .  but for those of you out there that might actually care about such trivial matters in a movie such as a plot , here are the basics .  a bunch of unsuspecting teens get a summer job at a long closed summer camp .  they are days away from the arrival of the kids and they are spending their time fixing the place up and making sure it is ready for the kids .  sadly , they start being butchered one by one by the bloodthirsty killer .  at this point i would usually say something about the quality of acting , directing or maybe something about the high quality of the production .  since i'm not going to do that , feel free to assume that if i did , it wouldn't be positive .  i will say that this movie looks as if it was made for about a hundred bucks , and that includes the actors' salaries .  if you are used to recent horror films like scream , you are in for a bit of a surprise .  the only saving grace for friday the 13th is that it was really the first of its kind , with the killer taking real pride in their work .  using as many methods of murder as they could .  none of this single murder weapon stuff life that unimaginative leatherface in chainsaw massacre , or the creatively stifled imagination of halloween's michael myers who just used brute force or a really big kitchen knife .  nope , in the friday the 13th movies , you can always count on the killer taking great pride in his work .  one fun fact about this movie is that the cast includes a very young kevin bacon , although after this movie it is a wonder he ever worked again .  the main reason to see friday the 13th is if you want to watch all of the series from the beginning .  if not , stick with the later films with jason , everyone's favorite hockey fan .  friday the 13th is the sort of movie that is fun to sit down and get a couple of scares from , just don't sit down expecting a whole lot .  
there's a good , and timely , story trapped deep within the excess of murder in the first , a new movie about the abuses of our prison system .  with a country wrapped up in feverish debate over the crime issue and the rights of the accused and the incarcerated in jeopardy , this expose would offer something rare to recent american movies--a point of view .  but director marc rocco makes it clear from the beginning that pretentious , often nauseating , camera movements and slick , mtv- style lighting and editing are far more important .  there's not a moment in the picture where he surrenders technique for pure storytelling .  and everything suffers .  christian slater and kevin bacon star as defense attorney and alcatraz inmate , respectively .  after spending an unprecedented amount of time in an isolated cell for attempting to escape , bacon murders another prisoner and faces trial .  his young lawyer ( slater ) is fresh out of law school but determined to " put alcatraz on trial " for the abuses of it warden ( gary oldman ) .  the result is the usual courtroom theatrics- imagine a stanley kramer production shot by hyperactive film school students .  there's very little to praise here outside of kevin bacon's earnest overacting and the appropriate story .  there's a lot of overacting from everyone--you know you're in trouble right away when r . lee ermey ( the drill sergeant in full metal jacket ) is cast as a judge , the center of reason and moderation .  slater has never been convincing and certainly isn't here and oldman is on a bad streak of hammy performances .  but the worst feeling you get while watching murder in the first is that the man behind the camera could care less about telling a good story .  there are long exchanges of dialogue where the camera is not even moving near the characters , let alone with them .  how frustrating it must be for actors to work under these conditions .  if there's anything that has alway distinguished american films over the rest of the world , it is our ability to tell a good story .  have we forgotten ?  
this is the worst movie i've viewed so far in 98 .  the avengers = silly = man dressed in a bowler hat + woman wearing tight leathers > evil scientists dressed in teddy bear suits + greater evil , sir august de wynter wearing kilt .  the question is what could have gone wrong with a potentially great idea with big name cast ?  the same question was probably asked of last year's stinker batman and robin .  i feel the production got a little too smug , the script a little to smart and direction was somehow lost in the chaos of random events that collided together to form a movie .  my greatest criticism rests on the fact that there was no chemistry between emma peel and john steed ( thurman and fiennes ) ? something that was a vital element of the 60's tv serial of the same name .  the dialogue goes on and on about tea and other finer british perks , but does not allow much room for character development and interaction , except to perhaps grate on the viewer's nerves .  one wonders why the dynamic pair bother kissing in the end except for pure english formality .  connery as sir august , does not fair better than thurman or fiennes .  his dialogue is as erratic as stormy weather , mostly embarrassing and poor quality .  if there is a movie you would prefer never to see , i believe the avengers would be a good choice .  for one thing , you will not have to witness a product that is far inferior to the three high profile names that is associated with the title .  i cannot understand how something so poorly produced could have been released , but i put it down to one of those freak happenings in nature , like lightning you can't see it coming until it hits you .  
synopsis : big-breasted and dim-witted sculptress britt gets really mad at her grad student boyfriend because he spends too much time on his thought-transference experiments instead of her art showings .  elderly , evil scientist everett longstreet switches minds with britt's boy , in the meantime , and goes completely mental .  comments : naked souls opens with a naked woman , and the movie makes no illusion that it's a sci-fi vehicle designed to show pamela anderson's , um , talents .  if you are really interested in seeing anderson's talents , however , i suggest you skip over this dud and watch the infamous pam and tommy lee honeymoon sex tape , now available on home video .  at least with that " movie , " you don't have to go through the painful experience of watching pamela try to pronounce multiple syllable words like " eclectic . "  a premise does exist in the movie .  basically , while anderson wears skimpy clothes which barely contain her talents , she practices her art -- brilliantly slapping plaster of paris on naked women .  her boyfriend , meanwhile , spends 20 hours a day in a morgue trying to view the memories of dead prison inmates because this will " make a difference to humanity . "  whatever .  the movie fails to explain how these two hooked up .  be grateful .  after we meet the evil everett longstreet , lots of technobabble and mystical mumbo-jumbo get tossed about , pammy has sex replete with cheesy make-out music , and minds get transferred .  never fear , though , pammy uses her sharp mental abilities ( ahem ) to save her boyfriend in the end .  unfortunately , no one saves the movie .  avoid this would-be sci-fi thriller , unless you're in for a good laugh or two .  
mr . bean , a bumbling security guard from england is sent to la to help with the grandiose homecoming of a masterpiece american painting .  the first two words should have said enough to let you know what occurs during bean's trip to la , but if they didn't look out because you are in for a rather interesting if not odd ride .  heck depending on your humor you might end up laughing through the whole flick .  either way look out america bean is coming .  well , what can really be said about this movie , there is very little discernible plot .  that much is not hard to grapple with for it is a slapstick comedy .  it achieves that goal rather admirably , but because it is that , the plot is just screaming for help .  the whole premise that the movie is based on is to say the least flawed .  the movie had its funny moments but there was no real story line other than something that could be thought up on a whim and carried through and in many causes ad-libbed as you went .  don't go into this movie expecting and theatrical masterpiece .  but if this form of humor floats your boat then you will truly enjoy this movie , even if you don't like slapstick style humor you will end up laughing because something's are just so stupid .  the movie goes out and accomplishes what it aims , or so it seems .  now when you look at the acting in this movie you have to think about two things , first was there any real acting and how hard is it to act in the slapstick manner .  well , there was no real acting in this movie but some of the slapstick wasn't the easiest i am sure .  i have to concede that mr . atkinson's acting in this movie is well done .  although the role isn't too demanding the slapstick is .  i think that the character could have had a bit more dialogue , it would have added quite a bit to the overall effect of the movie .  now the rest of the actors in the movie , bad acting and poor casting .  i think that the role opposite bean could have been better , just seemed wrong for the movie .  a different actor might have done a better job of it but i wont presume that wasn't what was trying to be achieved .  one thing that i must say , simply to get if off my chest is that i think transferring a sitcom to tv usually produces rather disastrous results .  tv shows should do just that stay on tv , it will probably save some producers from getting ulcers .  i can only think of a couple examples of tv going to the big screen effectively , the best known of those would have to be star trek .  bean seriously fails to accomplish anything close to what that series gone movie achieved .  now another thing that i have to state again is this movie has narrowed its target audience fairly tightly .  the form of humor in this movie will not be liked by most people , these people will think like i did that this movie is stupid and pointless .  but if you like the tv show you might actually like this movie .  but to be on the safe side i am opting to recommend you save your money and not go to see this movie .  there are many movies that are truly worth seeing unlike this one .  
wonderland is a rather sugary romance film that is as subtle as a ton of bricks falling on you .  you can see its plot developing from a mile away . you  are lured into its benign story of a single 29-year-old girl looking for a soul mate in boston , as that city is depicted as a mini-wonderland for singles .  this is a star oriented film , and the star who carries the film is erin ( hope davis ) .  that this is a dating film , about singles who for reasons of fate or luck , or whatnot , have not had a successful match and are now putting most of their energy into fulfilling their careers , is nothing new , this type of film has been done often and better many times in contemporary films .  the fictionalized documentary unmade beds did it more provocatively and with more of a sense of urgency than this film . the  main quirk in the plot here , is that hope's pushy mother ( hollan ) visits her in boston , sees her daughter's live-in relationship with a radical protester ( hoffman ) breakup and decides to put a personal ad in the newspaper for her harvard medical school drop-out daughter , who works as a nurse .  this is done without her knowledge .  it is cornball sitcom stuff , but , at least , it is handled as best it could be by the actors and director .  it is easy to like erin , she is bright , caring , and attractively blonde .  it is equally easy to care for the soul mate she keeps missing contact with , the financially strapped , ruggedly handsome , intelligent 35-year-old alan ( alan ) , who no longer wants to work with his father as a plumber but is doing volunteer work at the aquarium and attending college to be a marine biologist .  of course , he comes across as being so good ( though , he does kill some fish in the aquarium ) , that it is hard to believe he's for real , or just some cardboard shining knight put into the story to give it an ideal to shoot for .  the contrived story revolves around their near misses in meeting each other in such spots as , the subway , at a restaurant , or on the phone .  alan's brother answers erin's ad with a few of his pals , as they each try to respond to her ad in a phony way , making a bet that the first who gets to tongue kiss her , that the others witness , will win the bet .  this sub-plot was as obnoxious to see take place as it is to hear told .  that we have to see erin go through several dates to prove the point how ego sick these guys are , each one more annoying than the other , culminating in the most obnoxious one of all , that brazilian lover ( jose ) , who is about as charming as a snake-oil salesman , who is actually the one she nearly flies away with for a holiday in brazil , was not only incredulous but downright contrary to the rich presentation of her character that was the heart of the story .  anyway , as expected , all's well that ends well , for this watchable piece of fluff , that comes over on screen better than it does when relating its story-line .  the dialogue was actually not bad , those dating erin or trying to flirt with her seemed to be uttering authentic things they would actually say in their situation .  and , oh , by the way , wonderland refers to the stop on the boston metro , it is where greyhound racing takes place .  
be warned . .  brit love story in the offing .  effeminate , mild-mannered karl is about to take a beatng from a bunch of ruffians at school as he bathes himself under a shower , his genitals tucked between his legs in the manner of a posing transvestite .  he is only just saved by prentice , who appears in all respects barring his protective attitude towards karl to be your average street-wise punk-in-the-making .  the ensuing scene ends up with both boys being ridiculed and then unfairly expelled from the school .  they do not see each other for another eighteen yeas .  in that time , prentice has matured into a somewhat loveable , if brash and bull-heaed goon who screws up his jobs and relationships while gamely clinging onto perennial adolescence via lether jackets , motorcycles and punk rock music .  karl , on the other hand , has grown up to become kim , a drabby , insecure woman who works as a verse writer for a greeting card company .  chance brings the two together , and love , such as will inevitably blossom in your quirky british romantic comedy , is what this skewed little story is largely about .  if at this point you think you're going to get any cheap laughs with that gender-bending theme ( see the birdcage , to wong foo . . . , priscilla queen of the desert ) , you can just go home and brood on your own maladjusted sexuality you low-life deadbeat .  kim is a post-operative transsexual , thank you very much . . .  a new-born woman for all purposes , with confusions and sensitivities that deserve treatment with a touch of delicacy .  personally , give me those cheap laughs any day .  i'd rather enjoy obvious camp than endure the shallow exploration of a soft- hearted transsexual love story .  different for girls comes up with a promising enough proposition , but does nothing that surpasses the merely workmanlike with it .  by refusing to make the audience really uncomfortable with the notion of kim and prentice's relation- ship , or at the very least feel uncomfortable for them ( prentice for example , doesn't seem to give hiself all that much grief when he becomes attracted to kim despite being a fight-picking , beer-drinking , macho kind of guy , and kim , for all her insecurities and fears is always saved any truly disturbing victimisation in the film ) , and instead drawing them into a basically wimpy love story , the film manages to lobotomise itself .  lightweight comedy as it's doomed to be , it could've still have hacked it with the requisitive endearing couple .  but this doesn't either , since even mrs doubtfire is sexier than steven mackintosh's kim foyle , and as either sex , he's just plainly a simpering wanker nobody should like .  prentice does though , and that's never explained .  but then rupert graves gives us so heroic performance as prentice , the guy who never grew up ( and if there is a bafta prize for most convincing portrayal of a rabid fan at a buzzcocks' concert , he should win that too ) that i guess there's no reason to explain why he's so screwed up .  if oddly enough you grow to like this show , you'll be wanting your happy ending , and the film won't fail you there either .  snide underling at kim's office gets her come-uppance .  misogynistic police officer who beats up prentice gets his come-uppance .  the couple prevail against a disagreeable society and come together in kim's apartment .  kim's sister and her impotent sarge-type husband kiss and make up after a tiff ( tv movie sub-plot with incidental juxtaposition ) .  and best of all , kim sheds her insecurities and learns how to ride the motorcycle and wear leathers , making prentice ride pilion .  awwww .  terrific closure .  happy ending .  but just what is it that's differnt for girls anyway ?  if you figure that one out , let me know .  the flying inkpot rating system : * wait for the tv2 broadcast .   * * a little creaky , but still better than staying at home with gotcha !   * * * pretty good , bring a friend .   * * * * amazing , potent stuff .   * * * * * perfection .  see it twice .  
a silly film that tries to be a black comedy but plays more like lightweight comedy , with its main asset being a beautiful film location along spain's mountainous coastline .  howard pigeon ( jeff goldblum ) is a 40-year-old mineral water salesman who is married for 13 years to a wife constantly nagging him , elizabeth ( mimi rogers ) .  after a surprise birthday party for him , where his wife bawls him out for coming late to his surprise party , he confides to his best friend that he can't stand it anymore , and then tells him his plan to kill her while vacationing in the same barcelona hotel where they spent their honeymoon .  jeff is going through a severe mid-life crises , worried that he looks older than his age .  he incessantly talks to himself , mostly agonizing over his bitter marriage and chastising himself why he went out with elizabeth for a second time , and then why he married her just because she laughed at his jokes and was attractive .  he stutters and acts like a man who has lost his confidence .  things change on their vacation , as elizabeth makes an effort to be nice while jeff now becomes the grouch .  he nervously rehearses his murder plan in the hotel room .  by accident the gun goes off and into the pillow where he imagined elizabeth would be sitting .  when other hotel guests and staff come to check about the gunshot , he nervously explains that it was the tv .  realizing how unworkable his plan is , he places the gun in the shattered pillow and throws it into the ocean while he waits for elizabeth .  but elizabeth found his behavior odd during the entire trip , and when after a great deal of effort to get a reservation at the hotel's 5 star restaurant he insists on eating in the room , she decides she had enough of him and checks out without telling him .  as a result , he goes to the police to report her missing .  while with the police , a telegram comes from his wife saying she left him and is going away because she wants to be alone .  his boss and all those he works with are sympathetic to him , and he gets a job promotion .  but soon the pillow with the gun is fished out of the water , giving the police cause to arrest him and search his home .  there they find letters he has written incriminating him to the murder .  the police also find out from the hotel staff about the gunshot heard in his room .  in jail , things look bad for him .  no one believes him , including his friends and lawyer .  his boss fires him and the papers have a field day with the headline story : pigeon : a jailbird .  out on bail , he realizes that his only hope is to track down his wife .  through a call placed on his credit card , he tracks her down to a mountain resort .  once there he learns that she took a hike up the steep mountain and he gets a priest to be his mountain guide after telling him the true story .  the film is watchable just for the antics of the jeff goldblum comic performance .  he is someone coming apart by the seams , while mimi rogers is his perfect foil .  it was mostly pantomine humor , with the comedy charged in the changing facial expressions of the characters and the absurdity of the situation .  a very minor farce that might appeal to the sitcom crowd .  the film just didn't take its situation seriously and the story had many gaps in it , so it had no chance for black humor to develop .  it instead played its set-up of the henpecked husband acting out his fantasy strictly for entertainment value to see how many chuckles it could draw .  
 * * * be warned . . .  the following review contains some harsh language * * *  the blair witch project .  quite possibly the least scariest movie of all time .  if you want to see real terror on the big screen go back and watch any scene with jar jar binks in the phantom menace , because this movie is not scary or even remotely creepy .  my colleague and friend chuck dowling wrote that if less is more , then the blair witch filmmakers must have thought that nothing is more .  and this worked for him .  well , i'm sorry , but nothing . . .  is nothing ! ! ! ! !  nothing is not more .  it's nothiiiiiinggggggggggg ! ! ! ! ! ! .  i do not pay 5 dollars to see nothing .   " nothing " is free , available all around the world at a location near you .  i am absolutely in amazement that some people find this movie scary .  i could just discount them and say , " well , i guess they are just pansy chicken shits who are probably scared of their own shadow . "  but i have intelligent friends who like this movie and so that doesn't hold water .  there must be some other reason .   ( then again , maybe my first thought is correct , i think i'll try pointing their shadow out to them one day and test their reaction . )  when i hear people praising this film , i never hear them talking about what makes up about 97% of this movie : three kids bickering with each other about being lost .  they only talk about what might make up possibly 3 to 4 minutes of screen time .  this being a few very short night scenes where the kids hear some unscary sounds and another where they shout " josh ! ! "  over and over .  this film should not be called the blair witch project , it should more accurately be called three dumb and pisspoor filmmakers get lost . . .  and argue with each other .  oh ladies and gentlemen you will be so scared when you hear them shouting " josh ! ! " .  and if you thought that was scary , wait till you see a pile of rocks , and then some tinkertoy lincoln logs , oh my dear lord you will be pissing in your pants with fear .  oh yeah , and some goo on one of their backpacks .  you've never seen terror like this folks , and you don't want to .  the chevy chase/goldie hawn comedy foul play is creepier than this film .   ( for current films , i highly recommend the sixth sense or a stir of echoes for a creepy filmgoing experience . )  this film is an example of marketing with no substance .  the marketing was brilliant , and the whole nation is in awe of just the premise for the film .  they want this film to be good .  and i think they are reaching and praising the wrong movie because they don't have anything else to praise .  that wonderful film that rejuvenates the horror genre may come along , but this is not it .  this film could have been so much better .  just think , if maybe there had been only 10 minutes of arguing about being lost , and 80 minutes of nighttime stuff .  i saw this movie with a girl who was extremely pumped for it .  she was sold on this film .  and then , at one point during it , she turned to me and asked ' . . . are  we supposed to be scared by this ? ' .  i've heard one opinion that you " have to use your imagination " to create the fear in this movie .  well , i thought that was what the filmmakers were supposed to do .  use their imagination and create a good movie .  i mean anyone can use their imagination and not pay 5 bucks for it .  but even if you like this idea , then what are you imagining ?  an entity called the blair witch ?  some rednecks fucking with these kids ?  are either of these things really scary when you think about it ? ? ?  i've heard several people say that this movie makes them recall how scary it can be to be out in the woods and hear something .  well sure thats scary in real life , but there are a lot of things that are scary in real life that are not scary in a movie nor even interesting .  you could sit in your house and see a snake or a spider and it could be scary , but in a film it wouldn't be .  and no , a movie does not need a big budget or cgi special effects to be scary or creepy .  actually the less the better ( see the equally awful remake of the haunting ) .  but you have to do something .  you cant just count on us all having nostalgic memories of how something like this could be scary , if it were real .  and by the way , about the shakycam filming in blair witch .  aren't these supposed to be " filmmakers " who should know how to point a camera and shoot something without shaking the camera constantly ?  i'm not even talking about the couple scenes where they are terrified , that's justified .  i'm talking about the other 87 minutes of the movie where they can't seem to shoot anything smoothly at all .  minor quibble there .  there is a feeling in me that the people that like this movie are suckers .  that the filmmakers are just laughing their asses off all the way to the bank .  and i think there is a good chance they will see this film again and say to themselves " what was i thinking ? ? " .  but , if they don't , then thats fine .  if it works for them then that's okay i guess .  i just lament that by making this movie a hit , we are going to be subjected to more of the " nothing is more " approach .  pretty soon we're going to get some movies like this : just a still shot of a prison jail cell .  for 90 minutes .  and we'll have to use our imagination and think to ourselves , " my god , wouldn't it be scary to spend life in prison ? ! !  this movie is the scariest movie of all time ! ! ! ! ! " .  or , a shot of a coffin , with some funeral directors arguing with each other .   " man , do you know how scary it would be to die ? ? ? ! ! ! !  now this is the scariest movie of all time ! ! ! ! "  [r]  
there were four movies that earned jamie lee curtis the title of " scream queen " in the early '80s .  two of them were halloween movies , but the other two -- prom night and terror train -- were the uninspired knockoffs that came directly after the success of halloween .  the same " god , i'm scared , there's some guy in a mask coming after me " routine she did in john carpenter's classic , jamie lee copies here , with none of the urgency or suspense .  terror train takes place on ( where else ? ) a train , charted by some pre-med students finishing their first four years of higher education .  most of them won't make it to med school , though , and it's obvious from the foreshadowing done when the conductor complains , " i wish to hell they'd put a radio on that train . "  the conductor character probably has the most lines of anyone , even jamie lee .  from the beginning , he's talking his head off ( he tells one of his co-workers " think on this -- when's the last time someone built a shopping mall next to a train station ? "  as if it makes any kind of sense ) and it only gets better as he engages himself in an argument about the benefits of railroad over recreational vehicles .  of course , the loudmouth conductor is the first person to find a bloody body , which is then gone when he brings a skeptical trainman back to view it .  i forgot to mention the prologue .  it's a party three years earlier , with the same group of students .  two of them play a trick on a geeky frat pledge , promising him he's going to get laid .  they send jamie lee up to stand behind the bed and talk to the geek as he comes in , noticing a form on the bed .  she says , " kiss me , kenny , " and he kisses the body on the bed , which happens to be a cadaver .   ( " oh my god , they killed kenny !  you bastards ! " )  it's a sick trick , and one jamie lee wasn't let in on .  she still hasn't forgiven the guy as they board the terror train ( " you asshole , you can't have a good time without hurting somebody ! " ) .  the killing starts before the train even leaves the station .  since it's new year's , everyone's wearing disguises ( a convenient plot device we've seen before ) , and someone stabs the guy in the groucho mask when no one's looking .  at least one of the characters says it's a groucho mask ; when the killer dons it and steps aboard , it looks like gene shalit who , by the way , would make a great killer in a slasher movie .  speaking of weird-looking dorks who still persist on the entertainment scene , one of terror train's most famous gimmicks is the appearance of david copperfield " as the magician , " who regails those aboard with illusions set to disco music .  then there's his greatest trick -- getting laid with hair that looks like that .  for all its attempts at visual style and substance , terror train is more lionel than amtrak , more prom night than halloween , and nothing really worth watching .  only die-hard fans of jamie lee curtis and david copperfield ( if he truly has any fans ) should even attempt to watch it .  and it makes me wonder if a horror movie set in an rv could be much worse .  i mean , when was the last time someone built a shopping mall next to a train station , anyway ?  terror train is definitely the cinematic equivalent of a sleeper car .  
according to hitchcock and various other filmmakers , isolated motels , diners , gas stations and similar establishments in american southwest can be rather dangerous place for weary travellers .  at the beginning of eye of the storm , 1991 german- american thriller directed by yuri zeltser , one of such places becomes deadly for their owners who get murdered during the stick up .  ten years later their son steven ( played by bradley gregg ) , who was blinded during the incident , still runs motel together with his older brother ray ( played by craig sheffer ) .  hardly anything happens there until alcoholic and abusive william gladstone ( played by dennis hopper ) gets stranded there with his attractive wife sandra ( played by lara flynn boyle ) .  their unexpected presence creates the chain of the events that would end in bloodshed .  yuri zeltser , author of this film , was obviously inspired by hitchcock's psycho , but he chose to add some new and potentially interesting elements to the original plot .  instead of norman bates we have two brothers - one of them traumatised physically , another mentally .  sexual tension between beautiful female patron and shy motel clerk is heightened with the presence of alcoholic husband .  eye of the storm is impressive in visual sense , with photography by karl walter lindenlaub providing a lot of claustrophobic atmosphere .  the acting is fine - hopper , gregg and boyle are comfortable with their roles , but sheffer at times overacts his psycho routine .  unfortunately , eye of the storm , which was supposed to be intense psychological drama , deteriorates into cheap and predictable slasher flick during melodramatic finale .  in the end , this film reminds us that original approach can't prevent filmmakers from wasting too many opportunities .   ( special note to the profiler fans : ally walker appears in the beginning of the film in the small role of killer's girlfriend . )  
if you've been following william fichtner's career ( and there's absolutely no reason why you should have ) , you might have noticed that he's played some rather similar roles over the years .  like sully in " the perfect storm " --tough , gruff , and a little bit scary .  or law in " albino alligator " --tough , gruff , and little bit scarier .  or colonel william sharp in " armageddon , " or dwayne engelman in " strange days , " or even his brief appearance towards the beginning of " pearl harbor , " as the abusive father of danny--here is an actor who gravitates towards tough , gruff , hard-hitting roles .  which is why his performance in " what's the worst that could happen ? "  is such a shock , such a delight .  in the film , fichtner plays a blonde haired , meticulously dressed , overtly effeminate , dog-loving detective .  as alex tardio , fichtner's performance borders on caricature but goes beyond it .  it borders on offensive but doesn't really manage it .  and it borders on clich ? d stereotype but doesn't quite succumb to that definition either .  in a role so diametrically opposed to what the actor has played before we should have seen it coming , fichtner isn't perfect--you can see him struggling a little at times , concentrating a little too hard on the look as he swishes his hand through the air , or nuzzles a coiffed canine up close and personal--but he's pretty damned good , and silly , and without question the best thing in the film .  in fact , had it not been for fitchner's sudden and bizarre appearance , and his jarring screen presence thereafter , i would have walked out , for " what's the worst that could happen ? "  is mesmerizing in its awfulness , a poorly written , haphazardly edited , and totally unfunny ( yes , it stars martin lawrence and danny devito so how could that be possible ? )  moviegoing experience .  fichtner's performance doesn't exactly save the film , and it's not like i'm recommending " what's the worst that could happen ? "  solely on the strength of the actor's dramatic turnaround , but his contributions do raise the film's rating from no stars to one-and-a-half .  thumbs up to fichtner then , and thumbs down--way , way , down--to everyone else involved in this sorry mess , a movie so dull and pedestrian and nonsensical it doesn't even warrant discussion .  
note : some may consider portions of the following text to be spoilers .  be forewarned .  it's rather easy to start tuning out after about twenty minutes of finn taylor's first feature film , dream with the fishes , when the plodding , tedious opening sequence finally pays off with a potentially provocative setup .  any hopeful expectations , however , are soon vanquished as the film settles upon being an uninvolving mismatched-buddy movie which is rarely as funny as it aspires to be nor nearly as affecting as it eventually strives to be in the film's latter half .  the film's central characters are terry ( david arquette ) , a depressed , lonely voyeur who claims to be despondent since the death of his wife in an automobile accident , and nick ( brad hunt ) , a carefree young street tough later revealed to be terminally ill .  nick lives in the apartment building across from terry , who spies on the trysts between nick and girlfriend liz ( kathryn erbe ) with his trusty set of binoculars , but the two young men first formally meet at the bay bridge where a half-drunk terry precariously teeters upon the edge , unconvincingly vowing suicide .  nick casually asks for terry's wristwatch , and eventually cons terry into a trade - the watch for a bottle of pills .  of course , terry finds that the pills do not end up having the presumed lethal effects , and he angrily sets out to find nick in order to retrieve his watch .  learning of nick's condition ( he only has a handful of weeks left ) , terry's compassion kicks in , and the two eventually come to a distinctly peculiar arrangement - terry will agree to bankroll the dying nick's lifelong fantasies , and nick will fulfill terry's death wish by killing him .  this is a promising premise , and mr . taylor's film could have gone any number of ambitious ways from this point , but he instead chooses to capitalise upon the obvious inversion of the characters ( terry is a repessed , mournful character who wants to die , while nick is a free spirit with a joie de vivre who is dying but wants to live ) and takes the easy route out by turning dream with the fishes into a typical lark where the two characters engage in a series of generally dull exploits , and where the straight-laced character learns to enjoy and ppreciate life when hooked up with a quirky character .  this is by-the-numbers plotting , buddy movie/road movie redux .  however , dream with the fishes is most hampered not by its uninspired storyline , but by the characters which carry the story - it helps in such a film to have at least one of the protagonists be at least somewhat empathetic , if not likeable .  unfortunately , that is not the case here , where both of the film's leading characters are thorougly uninteresting and annoying , giving the audience very little to sympathise with their respective plights , and even less reason to want to follow their onscreen exploits .  far from a romp , this fatal flaw makes dream with fishes more like a chore to endure than a playful jaunt , and undermines the attempts at emotional resonance in the latter stages of the film as the two men begin to bond .  mr . taylor's dialogue sporadically falls flat in dream with the fishes - while attempting to capture a quirky and clever tone , it too often comes across instead as hopelessly contrived ( witness such lines as " you should have asked something more interesting , like 'do you enjoy the pain ? '  - see , that's provocative , leaves room for further questions . " )  the film enjoys a few inspired moments - the urn scene , a session of nude bowling , the policeman joining in on terry and nick's acid trip - but unfortunatetely these instances are few and far between , and for the most part the humour in dream with the fishes registers more as attempts rather than actual successes .  this occurs particularly often during the film's opening sequence - as terry is wrestling the bedridden nick for his watch in the hospital , i'm realising that this is * intended * to be funny , although nary a smile crept upon my lips - which is probably due to the obvious fact that it's painfully clear to the audience from the outset that terry is going to be thwarted in his initial suicide attempts , sapping any element of surprise or amusement from nick's scheme of tricking him ; this is not a film which has the wherewithal to kill off its leading star in the opening ten minutes .  the entire sequence is , then , clearly an exercise for character exposition , with attempts at humour terribly diminished by utter predictability .  among the cast , coming off best is david arquette , the current master in the portrayal of meek , squirming , stammering fresh-faced characters - he would have been terrific as the lead for george huang's swimming with sharks - who gets to apply his adeptness for timidity as terry .  mr . taylor ambitiously employs an interesting visual technique , where the portions of the film set in an urban environment have been processed to appear extremely grainy and heavily saturated , as opposed to a bright , crisp look for the smalltown scenes .  the charge of dream with the fishes's protagonists being wholly unempathetic is a bit of an odd one coming from me ; i seem to have a predilection for films with unlikeable characters , and indeed , in many cases have i been in the minority , supporting films which have been condemned as interminable due to the difficult , audience-unfriendly nature of their characters .  for dream with the fishes , though , i did find myself on the flip side of coin , often hoping that the film would quickly conclude , and that the nick character would just hurry up and die .  
for his directoral debut , gary oldman chose a highly personal family drama about a violent , alcoholic husband and father , and the various lives he affects .  but while the characters , places and events may have special meaning to the writer-director , the audience is left in the dark .  the center of this tale is the abusive raymond ( ray winstone ) , and the film focuses on him and the people who orbit around him .  he spends his days hanging out with his friends at pubs and girlie bars .  then , he returns home to his pregnant wife , valerie ( kathy burke ) and their five-year-old daughter .  raymond demonstrates his violent tendencies ( and his paranoid delusions ) early on when he accuses valerie's brother , billy ( charlie creed-miles ) , of stealing .  raymond then proceed to beat ( and bite ) him to a bloody wreck .  but these are the least of billy's problems .  billy is a heroin addict on the downturn , and it doesn't seem that he'll last much longer .  billy and valerie's mother , janet ( laila morse ) , is raymond's nemesis .  she disapproves of him ( and he of her ) , but is powerless to do anything about it .  she merely struggles on , hoping her children will survive their respective torments .  if this description seems bleak , i haven't told the half of it .  this is not a cheery movie , and most of the time it's downright depressing .  while at times it is interesting to watch to see just what makes raymond tick , and why no one ever simply calls the cops on him , in the end , it's not quite worth it .  there are too many scenes which randomly dot the picture with little or no purpose .  take for example the extended sequence where one of billy's scuzzy friends defends a stray puppy .  the film is filled with these " character moments " that never really achieve anything .  granted , there are a few genuinely powerful ( and sickening ) moments in the film , but their expression seems to be more of a catharsis for the creator than us .  the actors do a fine job , particularly in the central roles .  the good thing about an actor turned writer is that oldman knows how to write good scenes , and the actors in nil by mouth have some meat they can tear into .  the bad thing about an actor turned director is that there's no one to restrain oldman from making poor choices .  a good character drama should mean something to those involved in making the film and the audience .  oldman got it about half right .  
my first exposure to the nightmare on elm street series of films was not this one , but in fact the third installment ( it was the first to gain a national theatrical release ) .  i didn't see the first film until much later .  so looking back , the original didn't hold a lot of great memories for me , since i didn't think too much of it when i initially saw it .  watching it now for a second time confirmed that it's an overrated horror film that ultimately makes no sense whatsoever .  you all know the story by now : child murderer freddy krueger ( robert englund ) returns from the grave by haunting the dreams of the children of those who burned him alive years before .  this first installment does an adequate job with it's low budget , but there's some absurd dialogue and conceptual problems with the story .  plus the movie's ending ( understandably the result of the studio wanting the end of the film to have a " hook " for a sequel ) renders the rest of the film pointless .  and does anyone understand what happens to nancy's mother at the end of this film ?  don't get me wrong though . . .  it's not as if a new generation of horror films have spurned me away from the classics .  most horror movies released today are just as inane as this film is .  horror is a difficult genre to pull off credibly , and a nightmare on elm street just doesn't cut it .  a nightmare on elm street is available on dvd from new line home video .  it is available both as a single disc and as part of the nightmare on elm street collection box set .  the film is presented in both pan and scan and it's original theatrical aspect ratio of 1 . 78 : 1 ( although on the disc that comes in the box set , only a widescreen transfer is provided ) .  the film has been digitally remastered and includes two options for audio : a mono mix and a new dolby digital 5 . 1 mix .  also included on the dvd is a full-length audio commentary track with writer/director wes craven , stars john saxon and heather langenkamp , and the film's director of photography .  other extras include the " jump to a nightmare " feature ( i'm sure you can figure that one out ) , the usual cast and crew bios ( which are from the film's original press release kit , and notably leave out robert englund and johnny depp ! ) , and the film's original theatrical trailer .  some dvd-rom features are also included , but since i don't have dvd-rom capabilities i can't really get into that .  the commentary track is entertaining and informative , but nothing spectacular .  the first thing of note is that it's the same commentary track that was on the special edition laserdisc from a few years ago .  i'm not saying that's a negative thing , just pointing it out .  everyone seems enthusiastic about being there , with the possible exception of john saxon , who just doesn't say much at all .  most of the time you'll forget he's even there .  everyone else talks really quietly though for some reason , as if because they're commenting on a scary movie that they need to stay as quiet as possible .  the bonus disc with the boxed set called the nightmare series encyclopedia features about 45 minutes worth of interviews relating to the first film of the series .  also included is the original theatrical trailer and two alternate endings to the film . . .  however you can only access one easily .  the other is hidden in what's called " the labyrinth " , which might possibly be the most annoying feature of a dvd ever created .  basically , it's an interactive game of sorts where you wander through different nightmare locations looking at objects which give you access to extra little snippets of footage , interviews , etc . somewhere in the labyrinth is the second alternate ending to the film .  finding it though is both a chore and a bore .  [r]  
in 1989 , tim burton took the legendary comic book figure of batman and turned him into a huge box office hit with an atmospheric little film that created an utterly distinct feeling somewhere between film noir and the godfather .  was it " deep " ?  nope .  however it was a perfect entertainment and the audience ate it up .  it was natural that roger ebert trashed it writing that it was " without the comic book uplift " of the indiana jones and superman pictures .  which was true .  if what you were looking for was the tale of a heroic man's escadapes and adventures you were looking in the wrong place .  if those films were tom sawyer , then batman was huckleberry finn .  some critics ( glenn lovell of the san jose mercury news and peter travers of rolling stone ) realized that it was something special ; mr . lovell gave it * * * 1/2 and wrote that " this is batman as batman should be . " ;  mr . travers called it one of the ten best films of the year .  the praise was deserved - from start to finish the film was enthralling , exciting , and superb in every respect .  there was no doubt that there would be a sequel directed by burton .  the result was batman returns which forgets that it wants to be fun within the first five minutes .  the villains ( the hideous penguin and seductive catwoman ) take over , and our epectations are always left unfulfilled - when we wanted the penguin to bite off batman's nose he simply gets mad , and when we want catwoman to slither over batman's body she gets pushed off a building .  i admire mr . burton for trying to do more then entertain , but the result is a mess .  nothing works out as planned - it fails both to entertain and to enlighten .  hints are made to the audience that this film could be a blast .  alas , these are only hints .  there are , don't misunderstand me , several moments of cinematic genuis contained ; catwoman and batman understand eachother perfectly without a word on the subject being said ; christopher lloyd is trapped , by the penguin , within a giant cage ; a small basket is dropped into a large river ; but nothing is drawn together and burton is unable to make the film work on any regular basis .  a weak followup , both career and sequel wise , batman returns is sometimes dazzling , but to often dissapointing .  
and i thought " stigmata " would be the worst religiously-oriented thriller released this year .  turns out i was wrong , because while " stigmata " was merely boring and self-important , " end of days " is completely inept on all fronts .  it's a silly , incomprehensible , endlessly stupid mess .  for a guy like me who grew up watching arnold schwarzenegger at his best , it's extremely disconcerting to see where the big man has ended up .  for the first time in recent memory , an arnold action movie ( and " batman & robin " doesn't count ) is no fun at all .   " end of days " is a major stinker .  the movie opens in vatican city , 1979 .  some catholic priests have observed an ancient prophecy , which says that a girl will be born on that night that satan will have targeted for impregnation .  if he impregnates her between 11 and midnight on december 31 , 1999 , the world will be destroyed .  the pope orders protection of this girl , though some priests believe she ought to be killed .  in new york , that very night , a girl is born to fulfill the prophecy .  twenty years later , we meet jericho cane ( schwarzenegger ) , a suicidal ex-cop with a drinking problem .  now working as a security guard for hire , he is protecting a local businessman ( gabriel byrne ) , who is actually possessed by the devil .  an assassination attempt on the businessman by a crazed former priest leads him to the girl satan is after , christine york ( robin tunney ) .  recognizing elements of his own murdered daughter in christine ( including ownership of the same music box , apparently ) , jericho swears to protect her against the devil and the faction of priests looking to kill her .  there are so many problems with this film it's hard to know where to begin , but how about starting with the concept ?  casting arnold in a role like this was a mistake to begin with .  schwarzenegger is a persona , not an actor , so putting him in a role that contradicts his usual strong personality is a bad idea .  arnold has neither the dramatic range nor the speaking ability to pull off a character tormented by conflicting emotions .  in other words , trying to give him dimension was a mistake .  harrison ford , mel gibson , or even bruce willis could have played this role ( they've all played noble and flawed heroes ) , but not schwarzenegger .  there are several scenes that attempt to establish jericho's character ; one has him contemplating suicide , another crying over the loss of his wife and daughter , and even one in which the devil tries to tempt him into revealing christine's location by offering him his old life back .  none of these scenes really work , because arnie isn't up to the task .  the filmmakers would have been better off making jericho a strong , confident character ( like the terminator , for example ) , the likes of which schwarzenegger has excelled in before .  this one isn't at all believable the way arnold plays him .  the supporting cast tries their hardest , and only gabriel byrne makes any impact at all .  as the prince of darkness , he's suave and confident .  he acts like one would expect the devil to act .  the problem is that the script has him doing things that make no sense ( more on that later ) and that undermines him as a powerful villain .  byrne out-performs arnold in every scene they have together ( including the aforementioned temptation bit ) , but this is problematic when it causes the audience to start doing the unthinkable : root for the devil .  byrne's speech about the bible being " overrated " actually starts to make sense , mainly because arnold's attempts at refuting it ( mostly of the " 'tis not ! "  variety ) are feeble at best .  the only problem is , arnold has to win , so in the end , nobody really cares .  kevin pollack plays jericho's security guard sidekick and tries to liven things up with some comic asides , but like most bad action movie sidekicks , he disappears after about an hour .  robin tunney isn't given much to do except look scared .  in fact , all of the supporting players are good actors , but none , save for byrne , is given anything interesting to do .  performances aside , it would be really hard to enjoy this film no matter who starred in it .  this being an action blockbuster , it's no surprise that the worst thing about it is the script , which starts off totally confusing , and when some of it is explained ( and not much of it is ) , it's utterly ridiculous .  why is the devil coming on new year's eve , 1999 ?  because it's exactly 1000 years after the year of the devil , which isn't 666 , it turns out .  some nutty priest accidentally read it upside down , so the real year is 999 , so just add a 1 to the beginning , and you've got 1999 !  if you don't buy this explanation , you're not alone .  it's convoluted and silly at the same time .  the method by which jericho locates christine york is equally ludicrous ( she's christine , see , and she lives in new york , see .   .   . ) , and if that weren't bad enough , there's plenty of bothersome stuff in this film that isn't explained at all .  why can satan kill everyone he passes on the street , but when it comes to snuffing out one drunk ex-cop , he's powerless ?  is he impervious to only one kind of bullet ?  how come he can't control jericho or christine ?  and how did those gregorian monks deal with time zones in their prophecies ?  a clumsy attempt at a joke is made about this , but it's never actually explained .  usually , this sort of thing wouldn't matter in a schwarzenegger flick ( i mean , don't get me started on the time paradoxes offered up by the terminator movies ) , but this time the plot inconsistencies stand out even more than usual because the action is rarely exciting .  there are several predictable horror film clich ? s present in " end of days , " complete with the old " black cat hiding in a cabinet " bit , not that we ever find out what the cat was doing in there .  it gets so formulaic that it's possible for those uninterested in being scared to close their eyes at the precise moment a " boo " will come .  their predictions will rarely be wrong .  the more grandiose action sequences are utterly charmless , partially because we don't care about these characters ( due to the script's pathetic attempts at characterization and setup ) , and also because they , too , don't make any sense .  there's a scene where schwarzenegger gets thrown around a room by a little old lady .  it's good for a few chuckles , but not much else .  supposedly we're to believe she now has super strength by virtue of being controlled by satan , but the script never sets that up , so the scene is merely silly .  none of this is terribly exciting , because all the action sequences are so badly framed that it's often hard to tell why it's happening in the first place , not to mention that they're edited in full-on incomprehensible mtv quick-cut style .  most of them had me scratching my head , rather than saying , " wow , cool ! "   " end of days " is not only silly and confusing , but it's also distinctly unpleasant to watch .  the devil apparently doesn't operate in the more subtle , i'll-convince-people-to-kill-each-other fashion outlined in the bible , but instead enjoys killing people gruesomely in broad daylight .  this doesn't only make him an awfully predictable sort , but it also means that not a single scene in " end of days " goes by without unnecessarily graphic violence , or the odd kinky sexual encounter ( yet another bit that had me scratching my head ) .  if violence is supposed to be shocking , it's not a good idea to throw so much of it into a movie that the audience goes numb .  scenes aren't connected through any reasonable means , so a lot of the time , stuff gets blown up , or people get killed , and i had no idea why .  reasons ?  to hell with reasons !  let's just blow stuff up !  isn't it cool ?  nope , not by a long shot .  this film is thoroughly unwatchable .  it's dull , interminable , and unrelenting in its stupidity .  perhaps arnold needs to make some movies with james cameron to revive his career , because it's not happening with hack peter hyams here .   " end of days " might have had camp value , if only it didn't top itself off with an overly pious ending that nobody's going to buy .  if the movie is going to be serious , the filmmakers should have come up with a decent script .  if it's going to be campy , arnold shouldn't be taking himself so damn seriously ( i didn't actually see him put up on a cross , did i ? ) , and his character shouldn't be such a sad sack .  as it stands , " end of days " is just a bad movie , and an awfully gloomy one at that .  
stephen , please post if appropriate .   " mafia ! " - crime isn't a funny business by homer yen ( c ) 1998  on a particular night when i found myself having some free time , i had a chance to either go to sleep early or to see " mafia ! " , a spoof of mafia and crime films such as " the godfather , " " goodfellas " and " casino " .  at 84 minutes in length , i thought that i could enjoy a few laughs before getting a good nights sleep .  but by my account , i think that my laff-o-meter only registered a few grins , one giggle , and maybe one chortle .  i suppose that you could justify your time as homage to the venerable hollywood star , lloyd bridges , who just recently passed away and whose last performance was in this film .   " mafia ! "  chronicles vincenzo cortino's ( lloyd bridges ) life .  separated from his family when he was young , he escapes to america and tries to live an honest life .  but as fate would have it , vincenzo grows up to be a powerful and klutzy crime lord .  following in his footsteps are his two sons , joey ( billy burke ) and anthony ( jay mohr ) .  like all siblings in powerful crime families , they squabble over power , the future of the family , fortune , and women .   " mafia ! " is co-written by jim abrahams , who also contributed to some gut-busting funny spoofs such as " airplane " and " the naked gun . "  but these previous movies were funny because the jokes seemed more universally understood and there was more of a manic silliness at work .  as i write this , i also wonder how many people have actually seen the movies on which this spoof is based .  crime movies in general contain a lot of profanity and violence .  it's a tough genre to parody .  i was kind of hoping that they could somehow spoof the profanity used in all of those crime movies , maybe by having all of the tough crime lords say " please " as they decide which sector to take over , but this opportunity was never explored .  there were one or two moments that made me smile such as the scene where vincenzo is dancing with his newly wed daughter-in-law .  a gunman shoots him several times .  the impact of the bullets cause him to make these wild contortions that force the wedding band to change music styles to keep up with him , from the samba to disco to the macarena .  i think that i just gave away the best part of the film .  oh well , that just means that you can go to sleep a little earlier .  
die hard 2 is an altogether unfortunate fiasco , inferior to the original in every respect .  place the blame squarely on the shoulders of steven de souza and doug richardson , who wrote the film's pathetic screenplay .  every line of dialogue reeks of either smarmy sap or forced humor .  the plot is altogether implausible ; the convoluted story line involves a band of terrorists who take over dulles airport and shut down the control tower , leaving a dozen planes stranded in the air waiting to land .  the film has zero credibility , and all of the characters come off as cliched , cardboard cut-outs .  so much for the script .  how about the action ?  well , let's put it this way : director renny harlin could learn a few things from john mctiernan , who directed the original , as well as the hunt for red october and predator--all standouts for their hair-raising suspense .  by contrast , harlin doesn't have a clue when it comes to choreographing action , and consequently , die hard 2 never picks up steam .  die harder is impossible to take seriously even for a minute .  in fact , the movie often seems deliberately campy , and it almost reaches the threshold of being so bad it's good .  you do laugh , but you laugh at the film , not with it .  die hard 2 should have never been cleared for takeoff .  
i admit it .  i thought arnold schwarzenegger had a knack for comedy when he made twins and true lies .  watching him in jingle all the way , i wondered why anyone ever thought he could carry such a lame movie targeted at susceptible kids .  it was one thing to scare the crap out of kids with the pg-13 kindergarten cop , but parents who let small children see this movie will have to explain themes of violence , alcohol consumption , burglary , racism and child molestation .  and you know they'll burst out in tears when arnold punches one of santa's elves .  he later decks a reindeer .  hey , man , why don't you just kick the easter bunny in the nuts while you're at it ?  jingle all the way is formula crap that follows the if someone falls on his ass , it must be funny school of thought .  arnold , sinbad and phil hartman crash to the ground more times in this movie than a special olympics hockey team , and the movie dredges up more cliche and less believability with each successive scene .  what can you expect from a movie whose entire premise is that two parents can't find a rare toy on christmas eve , and will do anything to get one ?  arnold is , of course , one of the parents , a crack salesman who is never there for his son .  he races from the office to his son's karate game , only to find out he missed it .  and his kid distrusts him because he's never around .   ( gee , we haven't seen that in a movie before . )  arnold the absentee father becomes convinced that the only way to buy back his son's affection is to get him a turboman doll , which his wife ( rita wilson , who will never be the breadwinner of the hanks household choosing roles like this ) told him to get weeks ago .  so arnold sets out to find a turboman , which turns out to be more rare than the tickle me elmo was when jingle all the way came out .  let me back up for a minute here -- arnold's kid is totally obsessed with this turboman character , which is unhealthy beyond belief .  watches the show , eats the cereal , sleeps on the freakin' turboman sheets .  i'd try to discourage any further obsession myself , lest any kid seeing this movie think it's a wonderful thing to con your dad into racing out to buy you any toy you want .  but nooooo , the climax of jingle all the way has arnold dressed up as turboman in a parade , exonerating himself of all wrongdoing in the eyes of wife and son , who don't recognize him until the last minute .  this is a sad movie all the way through , but it only gets worse after the opening scenes of arnold and mailman sinbad stampeding through a store , racing off to the mall and hooking up with a santa ( jim belushi ) who runs a bootleg toy factory .  most painful to watch is a scene at a radio station , where sinbad holds off the cops with a letter bomb after beating up the deejay ( an embarrassed martin mull ) who said he was giving away a turboman doll .  capitalism has produced some pretty evil things ( chia pets ) , but this ode to excess and violent consumerism is one of the most shameful .  never mind the subplot with perfect neighbor phil hartman trying to seduce wilson while arnold is off shopping ( " your cookies are incredible " ) , it's the main plot of the movie that sends the message that it's okay to do whatever it takes to get your hands on what you want .  maybe that's what christmas is like at the schwarzenegger house , but not at mine .  
when the haunting arrived in theaters , all i kept hearing about was the overdone special effects and the fact that very often the unseen bumps in the night in a horror film are far scarier than those that you can put a face to courtesy of special effects .  while i agree that this remake of the haunting goes a bit overboard in the visual effects department , i don't think that they are completely to blame for this movie's failure .  it appears that some people have failed to take into account that the original haunting had the " unseen " terrors , and it was about as scary as a dust bunny .  so special effects or not , if the story isn't the least bit scary , you aren't going to end up with a very frightening movie .  the thing that interested me most about this movie was the caretaker of this building played by bruce dern .  dern is always great , and even though he may have had only about 3 minutes of screen time he was still the most interesting element of the movie .  as i sat through the seemingly endless , albeit fairly impressive , special effects , i kept wishing that this movie was about dern's caretaker and not the one dimensional characters that populated the cast .  never a good sign when a bit player is the best part of the movie .  liam neeson plays a scientist who is conducting experiments on fear .  he decides the best way to get results is to trick a group of fairly unstable individuals to spend a few days in a haunted mansion .  he tricks them into participating by letting on that he is conducting an experiment on insomnia .  and he also fails to mention that the mansion has a reputation for strange goings-on .  catherine zeta-jones , lili taylor and owen wilson play his subjects .  like the original , taylor's character is the star of the movie .  but since she doesn't quite have the marquee power of liam neeson and ms . zeta-jones , their parts did seem to be a big larger than in the original .  and let's face it , probably half the people who see this movie will do so because of zeta-jones .  i'll admit that i would have never seen this thing if she weren't in it .  but the real stars here is the special effects combined with the fairly overdone sets .  they take over the movie as the supernatural elements of the house start to interact with our hapless insomnia patients .  there really isn't much of a story here .  just endless setups so director jan de bont can showcase all the nifty special effects that he got to play with .  and the special effects are great .  in many cases they are as good as you are likely to see anywhere .  in other cases they are overdone and obviously thrown in just for the sake of hitting the " cool shots " quota .  at no point in the movie do any of these things ever come close to being scary -- funny , maybe .  but not scary .  then we have the set .  when i first saw the house , i was very impressed with the very cool gothic look about it .  but it only took a short tour by the characters around the place to see that the set designers obviously had as much money to burn as the visual effects people did , and decided to take the idiotically overdone route .  this included a flooded hallway with books as stepping stones and a mirrored circular room that revolves .  what part did these rooms play in the story ?  absolutely none .  they were just there to take our minds off the fact that there was neither a descent story nor a single scare in the entire movie .  then we have the actors .  lili taylor has never been one of my favorites .  and when the fact that her character is mousy and pathetic is factored in , she comes in around the average or slightly below mark .  i have no idea why liam neeson took this role .  he basically reminded me of the ringmaster at an out of control circus .  his character was in charge of this farce but it quickly got away from him .  i have no doubt that liam will want to lock all prints of this movie in a very secure vault along with all copies of darkman .  zeta-jones was cast because she is too hot for words .  the fact that her character is bi-sexual is just icing on the cake .  all catherine has to do in this movie is look good .  fortunately that is something she does very well .  while she does have a fairly good size part , it is obvious that her only purpose in the movie was as eye-candy .  it's too bad someone of her talents wasted them here .  any random supermodel pulled out of a fashion show could have easily filled her role .  the haunting is the antithesis of another of 1999's horror movies , the blair witch project .  the haunting had a seemingly limitless effects budget , while blair witch relies on piles of rocks for its scares .  both prove quite nicely that special effects are irrelevant to a horror film .  if the story sucks , it's all downhill from there .  my advice ?  if you are looking for special effects , go rent star wars .  if it's scares you want , rent halloween .  either way , it's probably in your best interests to skip the haunting .  
plot : set in the future , a courier has uploaded some data into a " hard drive " that resides in his head , and must now escape the bad guys who are after that very important information .  since he overloaded his " hard drive " , he's also racing against the clock before the information seeps into his brain and kills him .  critique : incoherent , boring , one-act drivel with no suspense , horribly unbelievable futuristic environment , bad dialogue , career-defining bad acting by keanu reeves and a hilarious ending .  it's too bad because the premise of the film was interesting , but unfortunately for my friends and i , this movie turned out to be just as bad as everyone had warned us .  it's one of those films that makes you start laughing half-way through , when you realize that most of the actors in it suck , the location shots are filmed in dark " junkyard " type areas which they would like to have us believe to be futuristic ( whatever . . . ) , and all the sets look like . . . . well ,  sets .  there is also absolutely no arc to this story .  it basically starts off with keanu uploading info into his brain , and then a bunch of folks chasing him from place to place until a laughable ending puts a stop to the former uneventful proceedings .  gibson should stick to writing novels and " x-files " episodes , since his segue into the paranormal tv series was much more entertaining than any of this garbage .  some other hilarities of this film include dolph lundgren as some futuristic jesus character whose supposed to kick ass , henry rollins as a pumped-up cyber-doctor or something , and ice-t as some kind of a hobo dude with paint all over his face ( don't ask ) .  the ending is the funniest with some robot dolphin and a stupid ghost-lady from inside the computer doing some stuff that no one really cares about by that point .  i'm ashamed to say this film was shot in my hometown of montreal , canada , but sadly enough for us all , it was .  some of the cyber-travelling special effects were okay ( hence , the 2/10 ) , but overall , it's one of those bad movies that's just funny to watch and cringe at .  thankfully for keanu , he redeemed his sci-fi career with 1999's the matrix ( 7 . 5/10 ) .  it's too bad that he has yet to redeem his lack of acting talent .  little known facts about this film and its stars : as of 1999 , director robert longo never directed another full-feature film .  hmmm . . . now  isn't that odd ?   : ) writer william gibson immigrated from the us to canada in 1968 , after being rejected for the draft .  he lived in toronto at first , but since 1972 , has made vancouver his home .  his 1984 novel " neuromancer " and its sequels 1986's " count zero " and 1988's " mona lisa overdrive " are generally considered to be the definitive works of the " cyberpunk " science-fiction sub-genre .  this film garnered keanu reeves a nomination in the " worst actor " category in the 1996 razzie awards .  
i am a steven seagal fan .  i only say this now because " mufti splenetik " isn't my real name and because i probably need to explain why i went into this film expecting great things .  any proud seagal fan worth his beans will tell you that the seagal formula is something you can depend on .  seagal films can always be counted on for minimal dialogue , heaps of expendable baddies with extemely crunchable bones ( which we'll always hear when seagal does his limb-twisting thing ) , rarely a female co-lead in sight ( unless it's a real-life model-wife who hasn't worked since weird science ) and , usually the worst possible titles you can imagine .  not to mention very straightforward plots , generally all-round bad dialogue and mr implacable leather-face himself in that same black outfit he's been in since nico doing his " my hands are sharp , nimble knives " thing , seagal the stoic , sir petrified ponytail , duke of dull .  in the glimmer man , seagal breaks out of this formula : he gets a * sidekick * , attempts to banter , and puts on a new vest .  he's also put on quite a lot of weight .  small potatoes , you may say , a man should be able to accessorize and banter if he wants to , but damnit , if it ain't broke , why fix it ?   ( more on this disappointed person's dashed expectations later ) .  as jack cole , seagal is a homicide detective with a questionable past .  while he and his partner ( played by keenen ivory wayans ) are investigating a series of ritual killings , cole himself becomes a suspect , especially when a background check run by campbell reveals practically nothing on cole .  it turns out that cole is a former trained government assassin ( you just can't trust these homicide detectives ) , someone whom victims used to catch just a glimpse of in the jungle before he pounced on them , and hence , well , you know , that " glimmer man " thing .  an increasingly fishy homicide investigation in the present soon leads to the gradual uncovering of a larger , more threatening conspiracy that involves a crooked businessman ( bob gunton ) , cole's former cia boss ( brian cox ) and deals involving chemical weapons .  the glimmer man plot is pretty standard stuff , drawing ( as with his other films ) elements from the hotter films of the year ( eg , se7en ) .  it's the other changes that disappoint .  for example , although there's a fair amount of violence in this movie , there's also the disastrous pairing of seagal with keenen ivory wayans , probably the best known of the wayans tribe ( how many are there , exactly ? ) from television's " in living colour . "  wayans plays whiney straightman to seagal's bead-adorned and brocade-draped cole , keeping up his " are you crazy " part of the dialogue with wasted zest .  as campbell , wayans confines himself to bemoaning his new partner's eccentric habits , but the chemistry between the two is minimal , and seagal's wooden comebacks make for painful watching .  a cook in under seige 2 , seagal is now a buddhist who speaks chinese and wears prayer beads and intricate silk jackets over his normal black ensemble .  he chants , refuses to fight unless truly provoked and introduces campbell to powdered deer penis to cure his allergies .  again , a benign ( if trite ) plot device except for the fact that these new character traits require seagal to speak more than usual .  heck , he has to deliver punchlines and carry a steady conversation with someone other than himself for a large part of the film .  is that a lot to ask of the seague ?  too much .  seagal's best characteristic used to be that he knew his purpose in this already complicated world of movies : to crunchily snap off bad guy appendages , and to do it silently , and alone .  not for seagal , the snappy one-liners of arnold and stallone , nor the attempts to show that he can act , much less think .  no kindergarten cop , no oscar , just simple , unadulterated deathblows .  that's really how it must have started : like-minded fans who knew what they wanted streamed in to watch the seague do his thing , knowing that never in the seagal universe would they ever have to see him do anything else .  we trusted him .  we got to know him .  now , betrayal .  i don't know if i can watch another seagal movie without that little niggling doubt that he's going to try to be funny again .  i'll try , but it won't be easy .  if you haven't watched the glimmer man yet , you might want to wait for the video to come out .  it's easier to just fast forward the dialogue parts and linger on the action sequences .  after all , if we can't depend on our fantasies , what can we depend on ?  the flying inkpot rating system : * wait for the tv2 broadcast .   * * a little creaky , but still better than staying at home with gotcha !   * * * pretty good , bring a friend .   * * * * amazing , potent stuff .   * * * * * perfection .  see it twice .  mufti spelenetik is still a steven seagal fan .  everybody makes mistakes once in awhile .  
 " the 13th warrior " comes at the end of as summer where we've already experienced man eating sharks ( " deep blue sea " ) , man eating crocodiles ( " lake placid " ) and even a man hunting witch ( " the blair witch project " ) .  now , " the 13th warrior " presents a tribe of flesh eating men who believe that they are bears .  the story , if that's what you want to call it , follows ahmed ibn fahdlan ( antonio banderas ) an arabian poet who falls in love with his king's wife and is banished from his home land .  he then travels to the land of the vikings and becomes an ambassador to them .  eventually the vikings are called upon to protect the people of the village who are being hunted by the flesh eating men .  thirteen warriors are chosen to go on the mission , and as you guessed it , ahmed is chosen as the thirteenth .  he's not a warrior , and at first not well accepted by the vikings , but as the movie advances he'll have to prove himself both on and off the battlefield .  that's basically the entire plot .  there is also a romantic subplot that has been so badly mishandled and , one assumes , drastically cut that you begin to wonder why the filmmakers didn't just edit out all of the scenes attaining to that part of the story .  instead they chose to leave just enough of those scenes in to annoy the viewer .  the film is basically non- stop action and when it pauses and tries to develop a story it becomes a laughing stock .  the battle scenes , although well choreographed , are not involving and not the least bit exciting .  we don't get to know any of the characters and so we don't care who lives and who dies .  the film , which wants to be beowolf , comes across more as a failed action-adventure story aspiring to epic proportions but not achieving it on any levels .  it was directed by john mctiernan who's , " the thomas crown affair " is also playing in theaters currently .  and it's not that mctiernan worked simultaneously on both films but that , " the 13th warrior " was placed on the shelf for so long with the studio just waiting for a time to dump it on audiences .  it belongs back on the shelf .  
when i watch a movie like mike nichols' what planet are you from ?  i can't help but feel like everyone is looking at me .  it's as if all the audience is gazing at the back of my head in the darkness , eyes shooting daggers , quietly blaming me for the fact that they paid hard-earned money to spend their time watching this . . .  this . . .  thing .  i shift uncomfortably in my seat .  i'm reminded of how i feel when i see a pair of second- or third-rate celebrities engaging in a teleprompted " funny " conversation to introduce the next blockbuster award .  it's not my fault , i know it's not my fault , but dammit , someone's gotta be embarrassed , because it doesn't look like anyone on the screen is ready to take the blame .  i'm about to give you a list of names of people who are gonna make a movie together : garry shandling , annette bening , john goodman , greg kinnear , mike nichols .  do any of these names make you instantly shudder ?  the answer i would have come up with before today is no , this is quite a list of talented individuals we've got here .  granted , john goodman was in the flintstones , and greg kinnear has turned in some less-than-lackluster leading man performances in certified failures like a smile like yours , but even so , they've got proven power as excellent supporting players .  garry shandling has two television classics under his belt , his ingenious little it's garry shandling's show and the larry sanders show .  and for god's sake , mike nichols directed the graduate , and annette bening is just walking away from american beauty .  so explain this . . .  this . . .  thing .  what planet are you from ?  purports to be a comedy exploring the relationship between men and women satirizing the whole pop-psychology mars/venus phenomenon .  but what this movie winds up being is a collection of unfunny cringe-inducing moments coupled with uninsightful cringe-inducing moments ; the end result is , unsurprisingly , an unfunny , uninsightful , cringe-inducing , thoroughly icky embarrassment .  garry shandling plays an alien from a planet populated by technologically advanced but emotionally vacant males ( they reproduce through cloning , of course ) .  his leaders put a select group of males through a series of tests designed to determine which one is most fit to fly off to earth , find a female of the species , and impregnate her .  they're taught how to pretend that they're listening by nodding and saying " uh-huh , " and how to compliment shoes .  imagine my delighted surprise when , oh heavens , all their carefully practiced tactics turn out to fail miserably , producing comedic results !  the lucky winner is fitted with a penis ( since theirs , after generations of disuse have long since shrunk out of existence . . .  i will restrain myself from mentioning the implausibility of such a scenario since the population has stopped evolving due to the fact that they're all just clones . . .  whoops , too late . )  the penis , when aroused , tends to make a humming noise .  the writers , when frequently strapped for ideas , tend to turn to this as a source of " comedy . "  it isn't funny the first time .  it isn't funny the eighth time .  it isn't funny the eighteenth time .  if anything , it made me feel vaguely self-conscious .  garry meets up with a coworker at a bank played by greg kinnear , who turns out to be a generic , unlikable scumbag .  he's meant to fill the part of unfortunate role model for shandling's alien character , but he's so flatly drawn that even the writers quickly give up and toss him aside .  kinnear's scumbagginess is demonstrated by the fact that he claims other peoples' work as his own to worm his way into a vice presidents' position and goes to aa meetings to pick up chicks .  wow .  what a magnificent bastard .  nearly every man in the movie , in fact , is played as the same sort of sex-driven slimeball .  when kinnear's wife walks into the office , there isn't a single guy who doesn't trip , bump into a wall , or otherwise pratfall as if they'd never seen a woman before .  the few guys that aren't particularly slimeballs , such as john goodman's detective character , are simply uncommunicative workaholics .  shandling meets up with annette bening , who will inevitably prove to be the love he never knew existed , at one of kinnear's aa meetings .  shandling's mission is to have a baby , and when he reveals his desires to her , bening instantly falls for him , and the next day . . .  they get married .  yup .  the next day .  cuz ya see , it turns out she wants a baby too !  bening's character perhaps was the most difficult to watch , especially after seeing her come apart at the seams so effectively in american beauty . . .  if her character here is supposed to be representing the female of the species as a whole , then woe , i say , to the species .  she's unfathomably insecure , and succumbs so easily to all of shandling's lines and lies that it borders on tragic .  there's a point where , after thinking she may not be able to bear children , she learns that she is indeed pregnant .  when garry comes home after nearly cheating on her , she strolls into the kitchen and sings " high hopes " ( you know , the uplifting ant and the rubber tree plant song ) to deliver the news , and then says to him , " now you can't leave me . "  we're supposed to empathize with shandling's discovery of the feeling of " guilt , " but instead i wanted to weep for bening that she was placing her entire life and soul firmly in the lap of a great big nothing .  and eventually , shandling falls in love with her . . .  for real , i suppose , though i'm not sure exactly what prompted it .  what's the message i derive from all this ?  men are liars , inherently empty creatures , but if you hang around long enough . . .  well , maybe something will click .  ha ha . . .  ha ?  i'm thankful such broad cynicism isn't frequently allowed to run so rampant .  let's all join hands and pray that the planet these folks are from is not this one .  there's also a subplot involving john goodman as an airline incident investigator that wades in the bog of stupidity .  goodman , through a series of astoundingly implausible realizations , puts together the fact that shandling is a being from another world with a magic , vibrating penis .  it has all the makings for a subplot of having shandling be discovered , that , thankfully , never comes to the inevitable hackneyed fruition .  instead , it just dangles limply on the branch for a while , withers , and falls away .  further proof that goodman should just stick to doing coen brothers movies .  but let's not dwell on this any longer , i've already wasted plenty of your time and my own .  let's move on , forget about what we've seen here , and get on with our lives .  and to help us out , let's end things on a happy note . . .  congratuations go out to annette bening , winner of this week's " title ! "  award , for delivering the awkward line of dialog containing the movie's name .  
it seems like i'm reviewing cheeseball horror movies on a monthly basis now .  scream revitalized a genre the studios are now intent on burying into the ground again-the serial killers in these new slasher movies have nothing on sony and miramax in the " relentless " department .  i still know what you did last summer is a terrible film in many respects , but in the wake of the stupefyingly bad urban legend , it's citizen hook .  jennifer love-hewitt reprises her role as buxom teenager julie james-who apparently escaped certain doom at the end of the last movie by . . . waking  up .  she lives in fear of ben willis , the vengeful fisherman-victim of a hit and run by julie and her pals .  paranoid and beat , she accepts a free trip to the bahamas from her friend karla ( norwood ) , winner of the local radio station's 4th of july getaway giveaway .  bikini-ready julie invites boyfriend ray ( prinze , jr . ) , who-and here's the movie's biggest mystery-turns her down , but changes his mind and plans to surprise her before take-off .  until he gets a roadside visit from captain hell-liner himself , that is .  unaware of this and feeling shunned , julie goes on vacation , anyway , with karla , karla's boyfriend ( pfeiffer ) , and will ( matthew settle ) , a real boy-next-door type who's sweet on julie .  to make a long story short-i can't believe it took a paragraph to describe the set-up for this gratuitous sequel-the trip is a disaster .  not only is it storm season , not only is the desk clerk ( the frighteners' jeffrey combs ) a jerk , not only are the few island residents and our heroic vacationers getting picked off by the resourceful willis one-by-one , but the karaoke machine isn't working properly !   ( you think killing is hard ?  try reprogramming a laserdisc so that gloria gaynor's " i will survive " now contains the lyric " i still know what you did last summer ! " )  all is not lost-ray is on his way to save the day , and a helpful witch doctor is saying little prayers for julie and co .  this picture is really about breasts : two of them .  julie , like a good horror heroine , never does up her shirt to the collar , always wears white in the rain , and keeps sexy underwear on in case of a sudden desire to tan .  based on the hormonal charge i got out of the movie , i can't imagine what it was doing to the ten year old boy who sat next to me-he gets jennifer love-hewitt , and my generation got heather langenkamp !  lucky bastard .  i didn't like i know what you did last summer and i can't say i liked this continuation any more or less .  the pacing in both films is languid-how is it that so much time passes with neither murder nor character development ?  i still know what you did last summer has a better sense of humour than the first one , though , and at least it explains away willis's random selection of victims .   ( i don't think the hotel maid or the stoner dude had the slightest idea what julie did last summer . )  director cannon ( judge dredd ) is a competent filmmaker but not a particularly imaginative one-if there is a part three ( what on earth would they call it ? ) , and the fun denouement suggests there will be , here's my suggestion : hire a filmmaker with flair , someone who can really energize this stillborn series-someone who won't rely on so many shock notes .  and let that person run wild with the camera .   ( aside : if blandy [sic] must appear in the next one , try to keep the number of times she says " baby " to a minimum .  thanks in advance . )  
we're back in blade runner territory with this one , conceptual artist robert longo's vision of a william gibson-inspired future where information is the commodity to kill for .  front and center is johnny ( keanu reeves ) , a " cyber-courier " who smuggles data via a " wet-wired " implant .  he's ready to quit the biz and get a portion of his long-term memory restored , but , first , he has to finish one last , dangerous job . .  the pressing problem in johnny mnemonic is that keanu reeves seems to have forgotten how to play an action hero since his stint on speed .  he's walking wood in a forest of stiffs that includes henry rollins , ice-t , and dina meyer .   ( dolph lundgren's street preacher is in an acting category all its own .   : - ) without a believable performance between them , all we can do is sit back and watch the atmosphere , which is pretty good in places .  the vr sequences are way cool , but the physical fx--such as miniatures and mattes--leave a lot to be desired .  watch out for those bad blue-screens !  we wouldn't mind a minute of johnny mnemonic if the action played better .  too bad the debut director isn't very strong in this de- partment .  his big finale is a sloppy , silly mess that runs twenty minutes too long , which is way past the time that most of our " wet- wired " processors have already shut down .  bottom line : yatf ( yet another tortured future ) .  skip it .  
ok , i admit it--i find camp amusement with the spice girls .  yes , the same spice girls of the gimmicky individual " identities , " they of the annoyingly infectious bubblegum pop hooks and cheesy unifying mantra of " girl power . "  but not even their guilty pleasure appeal isn't enough to carry their big screen debut , a junky mess which would be more aptly named shite world than spice world .  the film begins amusingly enough , with a cheeky 007-esque title sequence in which the british quintet-- " scary " ( melanie brown ) , " baby " ( emma bunton ) , " sporty " ( melanie chisolm ) , " ginger " ( geri halliwell ) , and " posh " ( victoria adams ) --are introduced one by one ( to , much to my surprise , excited and only slightly mocking cheers from the press audience ) as they croon the silky ballad " too much " ( a tune that would sound right at home in an actual james bond film ) .  a few minutes and an elton john cameo later comes an introductory tour of the numerous plotlines that run through the film : ( 1 ) the spicy ones go on a european publicity tour leading up to their first live concert at london's royal albert hall ; ( 2 ) a film producer ( george wendt ) and a screenwriter ( mark mckinney ) pitch various film ideas to the girls' manager , clifford ( richard e . grant ) ; ( 3 ) a documentary film crew follows the girls ; ( 4 ) a pregnant " mate " ( naoki mori ) of the group rapidly approaches her due date ; and ( 5 ) a tabloid publisher ( barry humphries ) attempts to destroy the group with the help of a sneaky shutterbug ( richard o'brien ) .  capped off by a live rendition of the girls' bouncy hit " say you'll be there , " a wealth of laughs and merriment is sure to follow , right ?  wrong . it's all downhill from there as spice world collapses into a series of misfired comedy sketches .  i must give the girls credit for their refreshing willingness to make fun of themselves , but writer kim fuller and director bob spiers can barely come up with a funny joke between them , much less a organized framework for all the " wacky " goings-on .  spice world jumps from vignette to vignette , subplot to subplot with no direction and little sense , at one minute having the girls meet with aliens ( no joke ) and at another having them stage a daring rescue of two young fans who fall into the water during a boat ride .  while a decent joke slips through the cracks here and there--during a " dance bootcamp " scene , the girls sing the lyric " we know how we got this far/strength and courage and a wonderbra " --much of the material is not even funny on the chuckle level .  some gags are just plain pointless , such as roger moore's recurring role as the mysterious chief , who dispenses cryptic , metaphor-heavy advice to clifford .  the only reason why i can think anyone would find that funny is the fact that moore once played james bond .  ha ha .  as weak as the script is , i think there's one insurmountable problem with even attempting to make a spice girls movie , and that is the girls themselves .  the point is not that they can't act ( and , for the record , they really _can't_ ) but that their individual personas , which works as a gimmick over the span of a four-minute music video , are too thin to survive outside of the truncated , video bite mtv world .  posh ( who garnered the most enthusiastic cheers during the introductions ) comes off best by default because her persona ( rich bitch ) most easily translates into character in a film .  baby's persona ( young innocent ) , to a lesser extent , also works , but the remaining girls' identities are a little harder to flesh out .  there really isn't much to do with sporty besides having her exercise every so often ( which is _exactly_ what fuller and spiers do ) , and , after all , what exactly entails being " ginger " or " scary " ?  apparently , just their wardrobes .  spice world manages to pick up some steam in the late going following a flashback performance of the spices' signature hit , " wannabe . "  the song is as grating as ever , but the energy of the number gives the proceedings a much-needed shot in the arm , setting the stage for a wave of self-referential humor stemmed from the screenwriters' film ideas ( the film almost mirrors robert altman's the player in the way the film snails into itself ) .  this section of the film , involving all manner of derring-do involving a speeding bus , is perhaps its most effective , but it also points up how all the other storylines ( the publisher , the documentary crew ) lack a satisfactory payoff .  spice world is harmless entertainment suitable for the entire family , and it will please the spice faithful .  but this sloppy enterprise surely won't win them any new fans , which is what the group sorely needs to bolster its rapidly waning girl power in the states .  once the hype disappears , spice world will likely serve as the the spices' final hurrah in america .  
sylvester stallone has made some crap films in his lifetime , but this has got to be one of the worst .  a totally dull story that thinks it can use various explosions to make it interesting , " the specialist " is about as exciting as an episode of " dragnet , " and about as well acted .  even some attempts at film noir mood are destroyed by a sappy script , stupid and unlikable characters , and just plain nothingness .  who knew a big explosion could be so boring and anti-climactic ?  unless you saw " blown away " . . .   " the specliast " of the title is none other than action star sylvester stallone ( in comeback #19 , i think ) , who plays a quiet , hermit-like bomber who was once a bomb expert with the army or something , but who suffered a change of heart when he and his assistant ( james woods , who shows us exactly what over-the-top is , other than another bad sly film ) accidentally killed some innocent people during a job .  his credo is killing bad people , not innocents .  and that's why he makes big bombs .  so anyway , into his life steps the seductive sharon stone , who is basically the girlfriend/moll of the stupid son ( eric roberts ) of a cuban/miami kingpin ( rod steiger , in an indecipherable accent , which is sometimes cuban , sometimes brando , sometimes scottish , etc ) .  turns out sharon is actually using her boyfriend so she can kill him , since he killed her parents when she was young .  so she calls sly , leaves messages with him , sends him e-mail , etc , about planting a bomb to kill roberts , which sly listens to obsessively , and while he works out naked .  yea .  also into his life , though again , comes woods , who has been tipped off by stone to catch sly .  using the cops , he tries to set up traps , none which really work , so when sly calls him , he goes ballisitic on his ass over the phone , getting so worked up by saying his must-be-improvised speeches that he seems to pop the vein in his head wide open .  these are the most exciting scenes in the film , and woods becomes the only ounce of entertainment in the film .  the film tries to offer us a moody film noir , except with explosions , but comes up completely snake-eyes .  it's just a pretend film noir , making it a big waste of time .  and for action buffs , the action scenes are pretty lame , with some really unrealistic-looking special effects ( a penthouse being blown off of a hotel looks like a piece of cardboard falling into a tub ) .  then there's the much-discussed sex scene between sly and stone , which are about as mispaired a couple as rachel and ross on " friends . "  their sex scene is more nauseating then sexy , because it shows us more of sly than stone .  now let's guess who we'd rather see naked , okay ?  stone's small but perky breasts , which we've seen more times than harvey keitel's dick , or stallone's veiny ass , which isn't usually shown for a very good reason ?  i know i can't really judge it as a flaw of the film , but come on .  the worst flaw of the film is this : it's boring .  i mean , i was on caffeine when watching it , but my friend fell asleep only to be woken up by james woods ranting .  but a good movie does not james woods going nuts make .  if you're in for some fun action , rent sly's earlier " demolition man , " which sucks too , but in a much more entertaining fashion .  skip this dull film , unless you want to see woods , or make fun of steiger's accent , or see stone's breasts again .  
`the skulls' is a laughably bad thriller , a teen-orientated doppelganger of `the firm' so blazingly ridiculous that it caused me to drift into a hypnotic stupor .  certain moments are so preposterous that i nearly herniated myself in an attempt to stifle laughter .  i chuckled incessantly , all the way home .  let me share .  the skulls is a secret society conceived inside the walls of yale ( designed , i'm sure , to mirror the actual skull & bones from the same college ) .  luke mcnamara ( joshua jackson ) , a townie and local varsity rowing championship victor for the third consecutive year , highlights the latest skull scouting report .  despite some anxiety and caution from others , luke accepts entry into the organization .  soon after , he finds himself surrounded by beautiful women , driving a new car and marveling at the $20 , 000 that somehow surfaced in his bank account .  yeah , dude , pretty good deal eh ?  but luke soon learns that the membership is somewhat suffocating ; when circumstances become extreme , there is no way he can leave the society - except maybe as a drooling vegetable .  the premise , although lacking in originality , certainly offers its share of potential intrigue and suspense .  unfortunately , `the skulls' is neither intriguing , nor suspenseful , nor anything else you would associate with fresh or exciting .  it's just another abysmal teen prototype that has the soundtrack , the stars . . . .  but not the script .  `the skulls' is so bad it attains a certain level of entertainment value , with the screenplay , by jon pogue , immediately becoming the basis for a slew of unintentional howlers .  first off , upon their initiation into the skulls , each new member has to have a skull branded onto their arm .  afterward they are supplied with a wristwatch that conveniently covers up the scar .  will they never take this watch off ?  and what if they forget it by their bedside ?  perhaps their ? secret' society was being a little too conspicuous when they decided to brand new members like cattle on an area of the body that is easily exposed .  on top of this , they are each given a rulebook and a key to headquarters .  gee , why not member t-shirts ?  but my favorite bit is this : the voting committee for the skulls does not bother with individual ? agree' or ? disagree' notions when making collective decisions .  they are given official skull paddles .  when flipped to one side , they indicate the member agrees with the proposal .  facing the opposite way means a disagreement .  wouldn't they merely express themselves verbally ?  hell no .  they have to retrieve the paddles for a proper vote , and maybe afterward they can play ping-pong .  i'm still chuckling about these ludicrous details , but the humiliating dialogue is enough to send one into arrest .  the cast , meanwhile , combines a pinch of veteran talent with a dash of the `dawson's creek' crowd , and fuses the two together , ensuring that the embarrassment will be a mutually shared union throughout .  but not entirely .  accomplished actors like craig t . nelson ( as skulls chairman judge litten mandrake ) and william peterson ( as fellow board member senator levritt ) are dealt pathetic villain caricatures , and look suitably embarrassed handling them .  and then there's christopher mcdonald , who has the capacity to be a fun , exciting actor .  mcdonald's charisma is totally diminished here as he sleepwalks through another perfunctory bad guy role ( yes , pogue makes it a hat-trick ) .  i pray it was a `snatch-the-paycheck-and-run' exercise for all these actors .  the young troupe of performers involved fair moderately better .  let's cut the talented canadian lad joshua jackson some slack for maintaining believability within the confines of his character .  paul walker , the strapping quarterback from `varsity blues' , is bland but passable as caleb mandrake - the judge's son .  walker preserves a straight face , even when dealt the silliest dialogue in the movie ( `dad , i just killed a guy in the ritual room ! ' ) .  some actual spark is generated by leslie bibb , who plays luke's longtime chum chloe , and manages to successfully pull off some convincing dramatics .  it really boils down to the actors attempting to puncture the surrounding plastic bubble of absurdity that cages them from minute one .  or maybe not minute one , thanks to a decent set-up from director rob cohen , who films early sequences with a sense of atmosphere and style .  it makes you wonder why he didn't flee indefinitely from the project , because while enjoyable cheese like `dragonheart' and the moderate stallone thriller `daylight' aren't superior cinema , they belong on the afi top 100 list when compared to this degrading trash .  aside from unintentionally humoring the audience , `the skulls' gets little accomplished .  the thrills and action are lazy and mechanical .  the story is stuffed with ridiculous , formulaic plotting that sheepishly overlooks the cool potential of a secret underground society flick .  instead of gaining knowledge about the skulls as an organization , we are thrust into a lame video surveillance conspiracy that has developed barnacles from excessive usage .  we've seen it all before , and better .  `the skulls' is a feeble little circus of stupidity , so miscalculated that -- while it would serve as a clever pun -- a term like ? boneheaded' seems just too generous .  
it's difficult to expect much from a director whose greatest accomplishments to date are a handful of " award-winning " tv commercials , as is the case with bubble boy director blair hayes .  that said , hayes's feature film debut lives up to expectations , coming off mainly as equal parts offensive and moronic .  but occasionally , bubble boy transcends its substandard roots with glimmers of humor and scathing social commentary .  those moments of intelligence are delivered mostly by the film's two stars , jake gyllenhall as the immuno-deficient jimmy and swoosie kurtz as his over-protective , hyper religious , reagan-loving mother .  gyllenhall's sweet-natured delivery of jimmy's hilariously na ? ve narration serves as the backbone for an otherwise flimsy coming-of-age story : jimmy is a bubble boy , a kid born without immunity who could die if he comes in contact with a single germ -- a plight explored more seriously in the john travolta tv movie boy in the plastic bubble and less so on seinfeld .  his mom home-schools jimmy , filling his head with wildly twisted conservative propaganda and anti-sexual messages , until he's befriended by chloe ( marley shelton ) , the beautiful girl next door .  jimmy falls in love with chloe , but is afraid that his love will literally kill him , as evidenced in a scene when she drunkenly tries to enter his bubble for a kiss .  but when chloe decides to marry her high school boyfriend , jimmy builds a bubble suit and embarks on a hijinks-addled cross-country voyage to stop the wedding by professing his love .  the offensive bits have little to do with jimmy's rare handicap ( regardless of what the film's protesters would have you believe ) , but instead center on outrageous racial stereotypes , including a screaming chinese strip club owner and a devout east indian hindi .  but even if you find stereotype humor funny , it's hard to muster more than a giggle for these shallow gags .  they even manage to bungle some potentially great moments with a group of carnival freaks .  but a few of the harsh jabs manage to work , especially in the case of kurtz , who very bluntly shows the dark , hypocritical side of the religious right , and a wacky send-up of a cult called " bright 'n shiny , " led by the inimitable fabio .  unfortunately , a few giggles can't make bubble boy the riotous , off-the-wall comedy it so desperately wants to be .  honestly , it's a mystery how on earth this movie was ever made , and i'm not just saying that because it's so mediocre .  how odd for disney to take a gamble on a film with an unknown director starring virtually unknown actors that doesn't seem to appeal to any particular demographic and has the potential to offend so many .  and now that the studio is suffering through a very public protest against the film by the parents of real-life bubble boy david philip vetter , maybe disney's wondering the same thing .  hope the opening box office take makes it worthwhile .  
bats is this year's camp flick .  with the world's worst dialogue , cheesiest premise and stupidest editor , this one should be heaven for those who enjoy films humorous in their inanity .  as for the rest of us , well . . .  i'd say skip it , but looking at the box office figures for this one , it seems as though most of america is following that advice anyway .  follow their lead and you'll spare yourself 90 minutes of your life and 8 bucks to boot .  i love alfred hitchcock's the birds , almost as much as i love the short story on which it is based .  it saddens me even more , then , to see that american treasure ripped off so blatantly by wannabe horror/schlock such as bats .  when mysterious bat attacks occur in a small texas town , the authorities call in a batologist ( dina meyer ) to investigate .  it turns out that a creepy scientist ( bob gunton ) has genetically enhanced a couple bats that escaped from his lab , making them smarter and more vicious .  why has he done this , you ask ?  because , you see , it is apparently a scientist's job to make things " a little better , " even if that means the death of all mankind .  so the batologist , her wisecracking sidekick and the town sheriff ( lou diamond phillips ) have to kill all the bats and save the world .  of course , that can't happen before they wallow in some guamo ( bat shit , for the uninitiated ) , get up close and personal with some truly repulsive flying mammals and survive some of the dumbest situations ever seen in a professionally produced motion picture .  consider , for example , a scene where two people are in a bat cave .  the bats are all sleeping , but the humans are afraid they might wake up before they can get out .  what do they do ?  do they get the hell out of there as fast as they can ?  nope .  they stand there for a while , transfixed by the thousands of bats opening their eyes .  what keeps bats from being scary or creepy is the hyperactive editing in most of the attack scenes .  we don't even get to see what's going on ; the screen becomes a mush because the cuts are so quick .  all we know is that bats are attacking .  how they are attacking and what exactly is happening remains a mystery .  a little technical proficiency does wonders for horror movies , and bats sure could use some .  of course , director louis morneau tries to liven things up with some intentional humor , but it is so conventional it doesn't really go anywhere .  most of the ocmic relief comes courtesy of the batologist's wisecracking sidekick ( leon ) , who takes every opportunity to sputter ingenious lines like " i hate bats ! "  some of these are so bad that they take on a double quality : they may inspire a smirk by their very nature and a roaring laugh because they are so inept .  i hate characters who exist for the sole purpose of spouting lame one-liners .  playing such characters does not help actors' careers .  still , i suppose that if you're looking for a movie that is " so bad it's good , " you could do worse than bats .  it does have a tremendous amount of camp value .  i'm not " recommending " the movie because , quite frankly , it sucks , and i know that this might convince some people to go out and see it .  more power to them .  
starring shawnee smith ; donovan leitch ; ricky paull goldin ; kevin dillon & billy beck the blob is the remake of the 1960's classic ( a term that i use very loosely to define the original ) about a really mean glob of goop that takes out anything that gets in its way .  now the original version has the virtue of cheesy special effects which give it a kind of nostalgic campy feel .  the fact that steve mcqueen was the star of the film doesn't exactly hurt it either .  fast forward to the late '80's .  steve mcqueen isn't in the remake ( this might have something to do with the fact that he had been pushing up daisies for years ) .  nor is there any hollywood heavy hitters in the lead role .  that is unless you count matt dillon's brother kevin as a hollywood heavy hitter .  the other thing that works against this new blob is that special effects technology has improved dramatically since the original .  the only things you need now to have great special effects in a movie are deep pockets .  it looks as if the produces of the new blob had a couple of holes in their pockets .  the special effects in this movie are cheesy , like the original's .  unlike the original , they don't look campy , they just look cheap .  one bright spot in the movie from a purely sexist point of view is shawnee smith .  she is very attractive and can actually act , which is more than i can say about some of her costars .  in terms of plot , a little ball of pink goop falls from the sky .  seems this goop was an experiment that was being housed up on a satellite .  anyway , the pink stuff has a taste for humans .  the more people it absorbs , the bigger it gets .  and it isn't the friendliest goop on the block either .  anyway , it attacks this little town and it's up to the attractive local teenage population to stop it .  not really , but that is how it seems .  this version attempts to recapture the camp of the original .  as i've already said , this new version of the blob comes off more as cheap , badly acted , and badly written than campy .  in the years since this film was made none of the cast have gone on to greatness .  although , star shawnee smith had a very tiny role in armageddon .  the reason that we have never heard of any of them again is quite simple -- they all stunk out loud .  although some of the film's smaller roles are filled with some actors that , while not big stars , are doubtless people that you will recognize from their supporting roles in other movies and tv shows .  it also appears that the producers of the blob tried to compensate for the lack of a special effects budget by making the scenes in which the blob makes meals of the townsfolk as gory as possible .  sadly , it doesn't work very well .  if you want to see a big ball of goop terrorize a town , then i would say that you should skip the remake and rent the original .   ( although that isn't so hot either . )  this newest version is seriously lacking in any redeeming qualities .  
toward the bottom of the '80s action movie barrel lies action jackson , the only movie in hollywood history to show sharon stone and vanity topless within a span of ten minutes .  this carl " apollo creed " weathers vehicle features the traditional cop vs . evil establishment crook , and relies on all the '80s trappings , from the token heroin addict who needs a fix to the shouting superior officer .  somewhere in between come the explosions and boobs , although there is a curious lack of exploding boobs .  weathers is action jackson , a detroit cop known for all sorts of crazy vigilante techniques .  speaking of one past criminal apprehension , jackson's superior yells , " you tore his arm off ! "  jackson replies , " he had a spare . "  jackson has been busted down to a desk job because of past problems with auto manufacturer dellaplane ( craig t . nelson ) and now has to act as department liaison to a dinner honoring nelson .  after hearing what jackson thinks of him , stone says , " i take it you're not one of dellaplane's friends . "   " not unless they changed the definition , " jackson glowers .  and of course it turns out stone is mrs . dellaplane .  faux pas , jackson . . .  not everything is happy in motown ; people are being killed and dellaplane has evil plans for the awa .  it's all up to jackson to stop it , and his only lead lies in vanity ( not his own ) .  wherever she left off with prince in terms of exchanging sexual favors for career advancement she picks up in action jackson .  she plays the heroin addict and chanteuse in dellaplane's nightclub .  after singing one particularly sultry number for him , she saunters over and complains , " i expected a standing ovation . "  he responds , " you're getting one , " and it's damn clever because he's sitting down at the time .  prince wouldn't even let out an innuendo that lame and he's the king of the horndogs . . .  or at least the prince .  it's a testament to the '80s that sharon stone is killed off within the first 30 minutes but vanity survives the whole movie .  action jackson is another variation on the " unlikely partners " buddy action flick , with jackson lugging junkie vanity around .  this leads to some of the worst paired acting of the me decade , and with the dialogue they're given , there's not much room for improvement .  my favorite is when vanity , feeling the effects of drug withdrawal , says , " i feel like my teeth are hollow , my gums are made of dry rubber and someone's trying to start a bonfire in the back of my bloody head . "  jackson's response is , " i think i felt that way once .  they called it love . "  you'll understand when i say watch this at your own risk .  serving the world for nearly 1/25th of a century !  
if anyone had been able in 1983 to forsee a late-night cable show hosted by gilbert gottfried showcasing some of the worst films of the 80's , they'd agree d . c . cab is the quintessential " usa up all nite " movie .  it's one of those childish r-rated movies that kids would love but can't see until it's edited for tv .  it's also one of those pointless , almost plotless movies with hardly any laughs .  and , strike three , it pairs mr . t with gary busey .  i heard gilbert say d . c . cab had " an all-star cast , " but i'm still hoping there was some degree of facetiousness in that statement .  when third-billing goes to a two-minute appearance by famed flashdancer irene cara " as herself , " you can't say a damn thing about all-star casts .  likewise for token appearances by marsha " roz " warfield , paul rodriguez and " politically incorrect " host bill maher , before he was somebody .  appearing in d . c . cab pretty much had the opposite effect on everyone else , especially irene " i'm gonna live forever " cara .  d . c . cab is an ensemble comedy from joel schumacher ( who would go on to direct batman forever ) about a bunch of misfits who drive cabs .  you get the feeling if the police academy cadets had made a different career choice , this would be the result , except here you have such interesting characters as the " token white guy " ( busey ) who wants to get in tight with the blacks now before they take over the world , the token jive talker named tyrone ( charlie barnett ) who wears his hair in rollers and uses the word " honkey " as much as possible , the tough guy with the mohawk and gold chains ( mr . t -- a real stretch for him ) , the aspiring musician waiting for his big break ( maher ) , the mexican gigolo ( rodriguez ) , the woman who actually wants to drive cabs for a living ( warfield ) and the guy who wants to own a cab company for a living ( adam baldwin ) .  we've all seen dozens of bad comedies from the 80's .  some are fun to watch and some are actually funny .  this one is more or less neither .  you'd think plenty of comedic sparks would fly from the assemblage of talent ( whatever ) , but d . c . cab more or less falls flat on a continual basis , culminating in the usual contrived hollywood finale as baldwin is kidnapped and the other cabbies have to go to rescue him .  it's a shame no one was able to rescue this movie from the depths of stale jokes and unoriginality .  d . c . cab has rightly earned its position on " usa up all nite . "  
written by alex cox , tod davies , terry gilliam and tony grisoni  directed by terry gilliam  i've always preferred mushrooms to blotter acid .  dropping acid is like riding a roller coaster blindfolded ; you have no idea where the peaks and valleys are , no idea when the next terrifying decent will send your stomach into your throat , and no idea how long the ride will last .  then there's the hard knot in your gut and the clenched teeth that come with ingesting a strychnine-laced dose .  mushrooms , on the other hand , offer the psychedelic equivalent of a leisurely ride on a ferris wheel : a steady , reassuring assent , a short period of thrilling motion and color , and then a smooth landing .  acid is for daredevils ; mushrooms are for refined seekers of joy .  my point is that in fear and loathing in las vegas , director terry gilliam has made an acid movie , when i wish he would have made a mushroom movie .  full of shocking sight gags , aggressive images and grotesque comic performances , the film certainly offers something for those fans of hunter s . thompson's book who want to experience its twisted pharmacological world-view from the inside out .  but for those of us who just want to enjoy a well-made film , gilliam has produced a mixed bag .  fear and loathing tells the ostensibly true story of how self-professed " gonzo " journalist hunter s . thompson ( johnny depp ) and hispanic activist attorney oscar zeta actosta ( benicio del toro ) , came to las vegas to cover a motorcycle race and found themselves trapped in the middle of a district attorney's convention while ingesting every conceivable drug available to a man of means in 1971 .  operating under the pseudonyms of " raoul duke " and " dr .  gonzo " , the two men careen into vegas on an acid and mescaline bender , then hole up in a hotel suite to binge on amyl nitrite , cocaine , tequila and a rainbow of multi-colored uppers and downers .  they terrorize every one they meet , mostly because every one they meet terrifies them .  duke hallucinates giant bats on the way into town , then is attacked by horrifying lizards in the casino lounge .  dr . gonzo becomes enamored of a thick-bladed hunting knife and begs duke to throw the tape player into the bathtub with him just as jefferson airplane's " white rabbit " reaches its climax .  and these guys don't just trash hotel rooms - they rape them , humiliate them and leave them for dead .  that neither of them ends up dead or in jail is testament to blind luck or providence , depending on your point of view .  thompson's book , besides being a hilarious read , has stood the test of time as an important historical document .  it simultaneously exposed the 60's drug culture for the sham that it was and exposed las vegas as the place where the american dream came to die .  pontificate all you want about how the film illustrates thompson's message , but the truth is that , stripped to its bare essentials , what gilliam has wrought is a drug comedy .  it's a cheech and chong movie .  you're there to watch depp and del toro ingest a lot of chemicals and then laugh at the results : see johnny take drugs , see johnny fall down .  there's nothing wrong with this concept , but gilliam tries too hard .  this is a frantic movie - all sweaty close-ups , wide-angle lenses , dutch tilts and other-worldly lighting schemes .  there are times when gilliam really does put a convincing representation of an acid trip on the screen .  but to what end ?  much of the dialogue comes verbatim from thompson's book , and there are some priceless comic observations .  but you're hard pressed to hear or digest them amidst all the jumbled camera work .  this brings us to the performances , which strike me as all wrong .  depp plays thompson as groucho marks filtered through george c . scott in patton - a gimmicky performance which works against the biting satire of thompson's dialogue .  in between his several puking scenes , del toro fares better as dr . gonzo , but he also mumbles and sputters so many of his lines that their weight is lost .  watching these two made me wish that the movie had been made twenty years ago , with dan akroyd and john belushi as the leads - now that would have been something to see .  it's interesting to note that alex cox , credited as a co-writer on the screenplay , was originally slated to direct before gilliam took over .  as much of a fan as i am of gilliam's work , cox would have been the better choice .  sid and nancy , cox's best work , covered essentially the same subject matter , but cox was able to pull back and allow the characters of sid vicious and nancy spungen to carry the film .  gilliam commits the compound sin of over-directing his film while being uncertain of his purpose .  what kind of movie was he trying to make , anyway ?  it doesn't try to be a cautionary tale , and it doesn't work as broad comedy .  if he had considered more carefully his purpose , the result would have been a much more interesting film .  but i don't want to be too hard on it .  there are some truly funny moments , and if you're in a good enough mood you might get a kick out of it .  i do , however , recommend watching fear and loathing in las vegas under the influence of your favorite controlled substance - i guarantee it will enhance the effect .  
the best thing about , " lake placid " is that it's only 80 minutes long and when it's over you're glad that you didn't waste more than an hour and a half of your time .  it's nothing more than a bad rip-off of , " jaws " ( and i think that's being kind . )  it was written by david e . kelly ( " ally mcbeal " ) as a horror-comedy but fails at both , miserably .  i was never scared and i think that i only laughed once .  the crocodile even fails in comparison to the snake in , " anaconda . "  the plot begins when a man is eaten in half by the giant crocodile in black lake in maine .  that brings the local sheriff ( brendan gleeson ) and a fish-and-game warden ( bill pulman ) to investigate .  also , a paleontologist ( bridget fonda ) from new york is sent to look at a tooth and an eccentric millionaire/crocodile lover ( oliver platt ) flies in because he wants to swim beside the beast .  soon there is tension between everybody because half the people want to kill the croc and the other half want to save it .  there's also an eccentric old lady ( betty white ) who lives by the lake and has a few secrets .  as i mentioned before kelley and director steve minor ( h20 ) don't go for a serious approach towards the material but they also don't have anything sly or satirical or witty to say either .  the betty white character is completely unfunny and none of the other characters are really that interesting , they're all basically idiots .  if they had any brains the croc wouldn't have been that much of a challenge to catch and they wouldn't have put themselves in half of the situations that they did .  but then again , if they were smart there wouldn't be a movie .  basically , " lake placid " is best undiscovered .  
that is , unless you're one of those people who have seen the preview a thousand times on tv or in the theaters .  i can tell you one thing now : they gave the entire movie away .  why someone would want to base an entire movie on one premise and then give that crucial detail away in the trailers is beyond me .  however , if they * hadn't * given it away , the film would've still been suprisingly devoid of suspense given its subject matter .  obviously , the producers thought they could remake " the deep end of the ocean , " throw in tommy lee jones and a couple of cliches and call it an action drama .   " double jeopardy " offers solid acting from ashley judd and tommy lee jones , who got first billing even though he didn't see to be on screen half as much as judd did .  it also offers some genuinely funny , clever , or full-of-tension moments ( my favorite : judd waking up in the coffin ) , but none of that can salvage the film from its insanely predictable plot .  half the time i'm wondering whether i'm watching one of those overhyped tv miniseries , which always turn out to be less exciting than advertised .  judging by the beginning , end , and a huge chunk of the middle , i might have been watching a special hallmark presentation too .  the movie's stretching for an almost two hour long film with only 30 minutes worth of material .  implausible material , no less .  loose interpretation of one of the amendments aside , too many times in the movie i thought , " that is * not * possible * . "  that kind of stuff is excusable in popcorn movies , but not one like " double jeopardy " that tries to pass itself off as serious drama .  everything seems dragged out , overplayed .  when they should've kept us in the dark , they let the cat out of the bag too early .  
i had an epiphany today .  it occurred to me while i was watching " house on haunted hill . "  it is as follows : if a trailer makes the film it's advertising look like a trashy , stupid movie , well guess what ?  chances are , there * is * truth in advertising .  too bad i didn't trust my own instincts when something-or-the-other possessed me to see this movie .  i blame it on my sudden craving for a scare and my anticipation of " sleepy hollow . "  that and " dogma " started too late in the afternoon for my schedule .  an hour of " angel " or " buffy " is scarier than this doozy that tries to be scary and shtick but falls flat on its face .  i wish i'd seen it when it was halloween .  at least i would have been forgiving .  hey , tis the season .  the movie was scary ( albeit very confusing , dizzying , and nauseating ) at first , but soon the horror got repetitive and downright laughable because the film obviously wasn't going anywhere .  now i truly appreciate films like " scream , " " halloween , " or any old hitchcock film where the scariness stems from situations that are at least somewhat realistic .  that's what spooks people out , the fact that it could happen to them or someone they know .  there has to be a logical precedent for the situations they want to scare us with .  sure , utterly unpredictable is good , too , but that's different from utterly nonsensical .  hohh ( house on haunted hill ) , on the other hand .   .   .  well let's just say i about fell off my chair laughing when they oh-so-cleverly revealed that everyone who got invited to the party was related to the psycho doctors who died in the house a couple of decades ago .  riiiiight .  y'know , that just sends chills down my spine .  yeah .  just like i wet my pants when they told me the house is evil .  ooooooo .  hint : blood and guts only work a few times .  sooner or later people start to tell themselves that it's just ketchup and props and you've got to come up with something better than that .  there were just too many things in this movie that we've all seen before ; from the inevitable " plot developments " of strangers unwittingly trapped together ; strangers turning against each other ; the evil manifesting itself ; the dead coming back for a last scare .  each was more predictable than the last .  why didn't these fools just stay together in one place anyways ?  sheesh .  was i grossed out ?  yes .  did i get spooked a few times ?  yes .  but why ?  i get really disturbed when there is no why .  when there weren't random scares that were there for no other reason than for the visual effect ( which wasn't that good either , trust me ) and the scare , the film was filled with drab , laughable dialogue .  the characters were incredibly flat and cliched .  not to mention downright annoying .  you've got a bunch of people going nowhere in their lives ; of course they're dumb enough to go to a party some stranger invited them to provided they win a million dollars if they survive the night .  jeez , i thought no one fell for those " you may already be a winner " things anymore .  and of course , all three gals are babes .  i wonder how on earth the geoffrey rush of " shine " ended up in this movie .  keep that up , geoff , and you'll qualify for the next batman venture .  the only single person i enjoyed was chris kattan because , well , he just cracks me up .  and famke jansen ( sp ? )  because she reminds me of the delectable brosnan .  pierce brosnan ( hey , i willingly endured " dante's peak " three times for him : ) .  all right , i concede .  there were a couple of things i enjoyed .  that perverted little amusement park at the beginning .  i probably won't ride a rollercoaster for a while .  and the machine they used to drive geoffrey's character mad ( see , i don't even remember their names ) .  the machine , not that stupid fishtank with naked wimmin in it .  i kept waiting and waiting for that inevitable twist at the end of the movie .  it wouldn't have redeemed the film , but at least it would have made me feel better .  but no , they opted for the beautiful sunrise ending .  thank god they didn't add a kiss at the end or i would have puked .  god , there is no hope .  
director andrew davis reworks his fugitive formula and the results are about as exciting as his last film-- the dreadful comedy steal big , steal little-- was funny .  keanu " i'd rather play music than play another action hero " reeves is the grad student on the run , who , along with his superfluous sidekick ( rachel weisz ) , has been framed for a sabotaged science experiment that vaporized eight chicago city blocks .   ( the mushroom-cloud explosion is a knock-out and easily the best part of the movie .  or , as one audience member succinctly summed it up : " whoa . " )  false information implicates their involvement and boy and girl are soon on the run , fleeing over open drawbridges , across icy lakes , and through the corridors of power at a top-secret , underground energy facility .  aiding and abetting is the team's shady mentor , played in an excellent-but-so- what performance by morgan freeman .   ( brit brian cox is also about , as the behind-the-scenes bad guy .  he has some fun fiddling with a southern accent . )  unfunny , overscored , and without a single shred of suspense , chain reaction is * the * summer movie to walk out on .  if you make it to the end , a mess of cross-cutting involving another imminent explosion , you'll hear somebody say " i guess it's time to go . "  heed that warning .  
one of the most blatantly obvious signs that often-acclaimed director sidney lumet's " gloria , " a remake of the 1980 john cassavetes film , had absolutely no effect on me occurred when i was driving home from the theatre .  suddenly , i realized that since i had stood up from my theatre seat five minutes before , i had not thought once about the film i had just invested nearly two hours of my life in .  when a movie is over , aren't we supposed to think about it for a while , and have a conversation about it with the acquaintances we have just watched it with ?  i thought so , but , for one , i saw this particular picture by myself , and #2 , even if i had been with someone there wouldn't have been anything to talk about in the first place .  to be sure , " gloria " begins with a stirring , rather poignant prologue in which a seven-year-old boy's family is brutally gunned down by mobsters , in search of a disc his father had with incriminating evidence on it .  right before the men broke in , of course , his father gave him the disc to escape with .  eventually , the boy , named nicky nunez ( jean-luke figueroa ) , is caught by the mobsters , and taken back to their apartment .  meanwhile , gloria ( sharon stone ) has just gotten out of prison for a crime she didn't commit and returns to her ex-boyfriend ( jeremy northam ) to recieve the money he promised her for covering up his crime .  when he refuses to give it to her , and then hears the group of men talking about killing nicky , she leaves with him in order to save his life , but not before holding the men at gunpoint , stealing all of their money , and forcing them to strip nude .  gloria is the type of fast-talking , smart-mouthed new yorker who always seems to get involved with the wrong people , and she never expected to be stuck with a kid , but she has a heart of gold ( don't they always in this type of movie ) and is only trying to protect the boy , whom she quickly begins to form a close bond with .  the previous incarnation of " gloria " by cassavetes and starring the luminous gena rowlands , remains unseen by me , but was no doubt superior , even though i can't really imagine how this considerably dull story could be transformed into an entertaining one , regardless of the director or stars .  there is no doubt in my mind that director lumet has stuck closely to the original , but the film itself is simply lifeless , with only an occasional laugh popping up here and there so that it isn't completely unbearable to watch .  i liked , for example , a very funny climactic sequence where gloria is deciding whether to leave the school she has left the boy at , and keeps turning the car around , then driving a little ways , then slamming on the brakes and turning around again .  these bright moments , however , appear long and far between , and the majority of the film deals with the budding relationship between nicky and gloria , which is both painfully predictable and by-the-numbers .  throughout , my mind was repeatedly asking the question , " who really cares ? "  as gloria , sharon stone has adopted an over-the-top brooklyn accent that honestly doesn't sound realistic at all .  in the beginning , in fact , i was amazed at how amateurish stone's performance was , but as the film progressed she got better .  although not one of her better turns , stone does have a comic flare that refuses to be ignored .  jean-luke figeroa was fine as nicky and a little more natural than the usual child actors who are so precocious they make you want to gag .  all other actors who appeared were considerably wasted , none more than cathy moriarty , an entertaining actress in her own right , who is billed fourth and has all of one scene , as gloria's friend whom she turns to for help .  sony , the studio that released " gloria , " obviously does not have any faith in the film , and i don't blame them .  they declined to screen the picture for critics , which is never a good sign , particularly with the high-profile people involved .  although how much money a movie makes does not determine how good it is ( just look at the spectacular " in dreams , " which failed to even make the top 10 last week ) , i have a suspicion " gloria " is going to vanish from theaters faster than " ishtar , " judging from the opening night 7 : 00 p . m . showing i saw it at , where there were about ten to fifteen people present , counting myself .  although stone can be an impressive actress ( just watch her in 1995's " casino " or 1996's " last dance " if you don't believe me ) and sidney lumet can be a respectable director , there is no reasoning for why they thought the cliched story of " gloria " was worth remaking or , for that matter , why columbia pictures agreed to finance it when they could have been making a picture that actually looked like it might have an inkling of a chance to be successful .  
pre-review note : seeing as the only concern of body shots is " sex " , i will be forced to refer to that particular act innumerable times throughout the duration of this review .  because of this , i will try to vary word descriptions of " sex " ( meaning if you are offended by pejorative terms , and \ or your name is jerry falwell , you are kindly invited to hit the x up on the left corner of your screen ) , so if there happens to be a word you come across and cannot comprehend , fret not , it's most likely just another way of referring to " sex " .  i think we'd all agree that any word used incessantly becomes a bit monotonous so i hope you appreciate my attempt to liven up what could potentially be a very boring review .  though not as boring as the movie which makes steve forbes flat tax plan seem as lively as watching a naked mathew mconaughy play the bongos while high on god knows what .  body shots is a film so frightened of coitus that scenes of copulation are filmed ominously , in the way you'd normally expect to see a violent attack .  it's about people who think about screwing , seek it out , and talk about it .  these are things we all do , sometimes .  the characters in this film spend every waking moment pondering the simplicities of sexual acts .  their lives center around the next sexual encounter , but they seemed depressed .  it's as if fucking is all they have to look forward to after a busy workweek .  at its core body shots is a message movie , the kind of thing i could picture really progressive church groups showing to middle schoolers in order to turn them off coition .  michael cristoffer ( who directed gia , another film that treated bumping uglies as if it where evil ) is a moralist with nothing new to say .  his characters don't communicate anything of interest to each other , so cristoffer gives them an opportunity to let out their inner thoughts by speaking directly into the camera .  they voice simplistic platitudes like " i like to come " or " sex without love equals violence " .  huh ?  and yes that is as complex as this movie's observations get .  the characters are stupid and shallow , with not one registering as anything more .  the plot concerns vapid over sexed twentysomethings on an all night hunt for carnal pleasure , then the after math ( the morning after ) of such events .  we meet the characters as they speak directly to us , confiding in us with their idiotic ruminations on intimacy .  i would normally go into the characters and the actors who play them , giving you the pros and cons , but for this film i cannot .  i'm not trying to be clever or witty , but i honestly hardly remember anything that would set them apart from the others .  with the exception of trent ( played by ron livingston as a bargain basement patrick bateman ) , the rest fade into each other-- a patchwork of fake breasts , defined abs , pearly white teeth , and creamy , flawless skin .  i vaguely recall brad rowe as the sensitive one , only because his character gets the worst lines ( " sex without love equals violence " ) .  in between all the confessionals , cristoffer films everything like a headache commercial , with blurry slo mos and dramatic head turning .  the fact that this director at one point won a pulitzer prize completely baffles me .  this film is made without one iota of intelligence or insight into the generation that its tag line claims to be defining .  if body shots is meant to say that all twentysometyhings are idiotic and f * * k-obsessed , fine , i don't have any problem with a film that tries to persuade me to think a certain way , but cristoffer only gives us one side .  additionally that one side isn't even entertaining ; the characters indulge in buggery without an ounce of sexiness .  or realism .  one sexual encounter takes place outside a club on a chain link fence between the two most sensitive characters .  they suddenly have vigorous intercourse with each other for no apparent reason ( other than that they both happen to be standing next to each other ? ? ? alas , if it could only be that easy ? ? ? kidding of course ) , then , not only isn't it erotic , it isn't real .  it doesn't feel like an authentic sexual encounter .  every f * * k scene in this film ( and there are many ) is treated in the same unsexy manner .  body shots makes fornication dirtier than the most scummy porno film .  it shows us none of the pleasure that should go along with it , and most of all , it fails to show us why its characters love making it so much if they seem to hate the act of actually doing it .  the resulting search for nookie ( and you can take that cookie ? ? ? ) over one night leaves us with several tedious plot lines to follow .  the main concern is much ado over a rape that may or may not have occurred .  the film shows us two separate versions of the possible rape ( one where it is consensual the other where it is not ) and in both versions the young actress playing the possible victim gets her shirt torn off .  this is a topic that could be interestingly explored if done intelligently , and if memory serves me i can't think of one film that has done so , and yes i saw the accused which may be one of the most overrated movies of the 80's next to wall street .  unfortunately nobody gives us reason to care , not the writer , the director or the actors nearly all of whom seem to have wandered off the set of a noxious 90210 spin off .  paul thomas anderson approached boogie nights in a manner similar to what cristoffer does here , though boogie nights succeeded .  it was similarly moralistic , but it gave us two different viewpoints ; it showed us how the lifestyle of porn enticed its characters , and it showed us the possible fall-out of such a decision .  the characters in boogie nights were as idiotic as the characters are here , but anderson seemed to care about them .  he gave them heart .  cristoffer gives them nothing but raging hormones .  he preaches to us , by using his characters to preach to us .  this is not the way to get any message across .  why not just direct a public service announcement on the perils of hittin' skins ?  cristofer kind of does that , though without an ounce of insight , and with a helping of leering exploitation .  
i'm guessing -- and from the available evidence , it's not a great guess -- that burn hollywood burn began life as an insider satire of hollywood excess , stupidity , ego and power-mongering .  if so , the film that ended up on the screen ranks as one of the most spectacularly ironic unintentional jokes in film history .  it has already been well-documented that the original title , an alan smithee film , became a problem when miserable test screenings forced re-cuts against the will of director arthur hiller , prompting hiller himself to opt for the directors' guild-mandated pseudonym of alan smithee .  that left a film satire in the hands of writer joe eszterhas , as humorless a hack as ever put finger to word processor .  and you could just smell the disaster brewing .  if you're unfortunate enough to sit through burn hollywood burn , you'll still be smelling that disaster long after the lights come up .  ostensibly , it's a pseudo-documentary account of a director named alan smithee ( eric idle ) who loses control of a big-budget action film called trio starring sylvester stallone , whoopi goldberg and jackie chan ( all of whom appear as themselves ) .  when the only recourse available to him is abandoning the project to be called " an alan smithee film " -- which , of course , it already is -- smithee steals the negative of the film and threatens to destroy it .  among the parties interviewed are the film's producer james edmunds ( ryan o'neal ) and studio boss jerry glover ( richard jeni ) , who spend virtually the entire film narrating the story while painfully unfunny things go on around them .  it's bad enough that burn hollywood burn has -- literally -- not a single laugh for its entire , blissfully brief 84 minutes .  what makes it even worse is eszterhas' insistence upon telling every bad joke not once , but twice or even three times .  michael ovitz references , showgirls references , oral sex references , whoopi goldberg/ted danson references -- all show up multiple times with all the subtlety that is eszterhas' stock-in-trade .  the reduncancy even manages to turn actively offensive with some frequency , notably with the hilarious use of the word " feminist " as an identifying caption for every single female character in the film .  by the time coolio and chuck d show up as black independent film-makers the brothers brothers ( cleverly identified as " bad a-- " and " badder a-- " , among other unprintable things ) , you may be ready to walk out of the theater with your coat over your head to avoid being identified .  those documentary captions , for all their leaden obviousness , allow the best insight into what's so hideously wrong with burn hollywood burn .  not content to stick any hollywood type with only one jab from his rapier wit , eszterhas fills the screen with bullet points every time a new character appears .  the producer is a " liar " who " slept in the white house ; " the media are " maggots " and " leeches " working for publications like " the new york slimes " and " newsleak " ( with the camera zooming in on the altered title to make sure you don't miss the joke ) .  it doesn't even matter that eszterhas tags " penile implant " after his own name when he makes a cameo , because it seems like such a desperate attempt to feign self-deprecation .  this is a petulant schoolboy's idea of satire -- pictures of hollywood insiders to which eszterhas has taken a pen to draw little moustaches and black out the teeth .  the last stomach-churning straw comes when burn hollywood burn closes with out-takes over the closing credits , the kind that show the audience how much fun everyone was having making the film that just sucked an hour and a half of your life away .  perhaps it was just a final , desperate attempt by eszterhas to convince himself there was some purpose behind the film , or to convince everyone involved that a few blown lines warranted threatening to blow their whole career .  pity everyone involved with this excessive , ego-driven " satire " of excess and ego .  it's too bad that only directors can remove their names from noxious material like this .  otherwise , you might have seen credits for burn hollywood burn overflowing with alan smithees .  
 " meg ryan is irresistible in the comedy that celebrates sisterhood ! , "  screams the television ads for " hanging up , " disastrously written by real-life sisters delia and nora ephron and sloppily directed by diane keaton .  make me laugh again !  not only is " hanging up " misadvertised , since the film wholeheartedly focuses on middle sister meg ryan and gives her two co-stars , lisa kudrow and diane keaton , little more than extended cameos , but they don't actually come together until the final ten to fifteen minutes .  and we are supposed to believe their strong bond , and smile in the last scene when they rekindle their rocky relationship , despite them being apart for the majority of the running time ?  excuse me , again , while i almost bust a gut at that truly delusional notion .  eve marks ( meg ryan ) is the middle mozzell sister , still living in the california town where she grew up , and with a husband ( adam arkin ) and pre-teen son ( jesse james ) .  her elderly , wisecracking father , lou ( walter matthau , in his brightest performance in years ) has just recently been put into the hospital , in the final stages of what i assume is alzheimer's ( even though the film never enlightens us on exactly what is wrong with him ) .  while eve's relationship with her mother ( cloris leachman ) is nearly nonexistent , since she ran out on lou and her children years ago , she has had her fair share of up's and down's with lou , who used to be an alcoholic .  her older sister is georgia ( diane keaton ) , an editor for the self-titled magazine , " georgia , " while maddy ( lisa kudrow ) is the youngest , a soap opera actress .  interestingly , their professions are given , but we not once ever see them working at their jobs , or , for that matter , learn much of anything about them .  maddy , georgia , and eve do not see each other much anymore , their adult lives gradually causing them to drift apart , but they do manage to consistently talk on the phone to one another .  and they talk .  and talk .  and talk . . .  in fact , the telephone is the major star of the film , even more so than ryan , as it appears in virtually every scene of this interminable 92-minute catastrophe that feels like its three hours long .  if you are able to get through the opening half-hour , in which phones ring so much you feel like jumping through the screen and taking a sledgehammer to them , you will surely survive the rest .  the question is , who would want to subject themselves to this resolutely irritating , self-involved pat-on-the-back ?  how could a comedy-drama that has the star-power of meg ryan , lisa kudrow , and diane keaton be so very bad in so many different ways ?  issues from the past involving the possible jealousy each has had for one of the others is fleetingly brought up , but the film isn't mature enough to deal with such a thing in a thoughtful manner , and since we learn next to nothing about their childhood , it is a lost cause that comes off as nothing more than an afterthought .  also , it is expected that the viewer quickly catch on to the tricky dynamic that the three sisters have with one another , but no dynamic metamorphosizes .  and when they do reunite in the finale , their whole consanguinity is reduced to a repulsively annoying three-minute scene in which they argue like little children .  you can see the impending death coming a mile away , and it conveniently occurs in the next scene , so that the three can quickly come to terms with themselves , and with each other .  you think to yourself : " the only thing left for them to do is have a playful food-fight , " and like clockwork , it also occurs by the end credits .  meg ryan is a versatile actress ( look no further than 1998's " hurlyburly " or 1994's " when a man loves a woman " ) , despite her various detractors who stubbornly believe all she can do is romantic comedies .  with " hanging up , " the only thing she needs to do is completely sever her filmmaking ties with nora ephron , a writer/director/hack who shouldn't be allowed to work in hollywood again after this big-budget , high-profile debacle .  even if she knew what she was making was not exactly up to par in the quality department , she nonetheless is very good , and the two scenes that work , flashbacks to christmas 1988 , when she had a heartbreaking run-in with her mother , and to halloween 1993 , when lou crashed her son's birthday party in a drunken stupor , are effective because of the realism ryan brings to the situations .  diane keaton , as georgia , is better as an actress than a director here , but that is a wildly feeble compliment .  what is more than a little far-fetched is that keaton is distinctly older than ryan and kudrow , although in the very brief glimpses we get at them as children , she is no more than five years ryan's senior .  yeah , right .  lastly , poor lisa kudrow has been wasted once again in a big-screen venture , after her even more thin role in 1999's " analyze this . "  kudrow isn't given enough time to create a full personality with maddy , so it isn't her fault she doesn't register until a few quiet moments sprinkled throughout where she is actually blessed with being given dialogue .  if anything , though , kudrow is a real talent , and i anxiously await the next time she is given a role more deserving of her time , as in her brilliantly nuanced , oscar-caliber work in 1998's " the opposite of sex . "  if you are a fan of kudrow's ( and who isn't ? ) , do yourself a favor and rent this gem that puts more good use to kudrow in sixty seconds than " hanging up " does in its entirety .  as eve's hardworking husband , adam arkin is , predictably , squandered with a role that gives him next to nothing to do , until a subplot reveals itself midway through , only to never be mentioned again .  cloris leachman , as with ryan and matthau , makes a small , but noticeable impression with her , albeit , very brief appearance , while edie mcclurg , as a rosy-cheeked woman lou had an affair with in the christmas 1988 flashback , manages one of the few laughs in this otherwise joyless production .  nearly all the emotions displayed within " hanging up " are patently manufactured , and despite the movie wanting the viewer to care about the characters , aside from eve , why would you want to when they are all spoiled brats ?  if , for some bizarre , " twilight zone " -type of reason , you find yourself in a movie theater showing this film , my suggestion would be to hang up on it before the opening credits are over .  saying it is a waste of time is an understatement of epic proportions .  
under any other circumstances , i would not be discussing the ending of a film to the extent that i will in this particular review .  however , in order to fully explain exactly how and why this movie is so awful , a minute dissection of the ending is necessary .  even though i will not reveal the details of the last scenes , do proceed at your own risk .  the movie opens ( quite poorly , i might add ) as child psychologist malcolm crowe ( bruce willis , looking like he was dragged out of his trailer at the wee hours of the morning to shoot each scene ) and his wife are intruded upon by one of malcolm's past patients .  distraught , the suicidal man ( a cameo by new kid on the block donnie wahlberg ) shoots malcolm and then turns the gun on himself .  cut to the " next fall " , as we find the good doctor quietly observing his latest case , a trouble young man named cole ( haley joel osment , one of the only child actors in a while i didn't want to bludgeoned over the head with a blunt instrument ) .  after about 45 minutes of seemingly unrelated freak occurrences , we learn that cole has " the sixth sense " , the gift of being able to communicate with the dead .  and this , as they say , is where the healing begins .  the sixth sense and its unexpected popularity is founded upon a twist ending that i knew going into the film ( one of roger ebert's colleges was kind enough to give it away on a recent segment of " siskel and ebert " ) .  although i was at first enraged that an established film critic could so callously ruin a film for thousands of patrons , i soon realized that this turn of events could in fact have been a blessing in disguise ; i've always been a sucker for surprise endings ( my favorite movie is the usual suspects ) and rarely dislike a film that sports one .  here , since i knew the major plot twist that was coming at the film's conclusion , the possibly of being bamboozled into loving a bad movie solely because of its ending ( something i've fallen victim to in the past ) was eliminated .  and indeed , my viewing of the sixth sense did prove to be quite an enlightening experiment .  stripped of the element of surprise , the film was put to the task of showing what it really had , instead of simply hiding behind a shocking conclusion .  after seeing its true colors , i came to the conclusion that the sixth sense is , despite what the many champions of the movie may say , void of any real power .  it's a neat concept , but not one that justifies being made into a feature-length movie .  in fact , the sixth sense relies so strongly on its finale that the rest of the film develops as a sort of prelude to the supposedly earth-shattering revelation that is yet to come .  and when the final moments do come , it's a huge letdown ; the end makes no sense at all .  it stupefied me with the heights of its ineptitude and is completely idiotic on a fundamental and very rare level .  i won't go into any details , but suffice to say that , as far as i can tell , it negates to rest of the movie to such an extent that anyone who buys it even for a second must be suffering from a very acute case of attention deficit disorder .  now , in all fairness , i cannot say for sure that i would have guessed the ending ( however stupid it may be ) had it not been revealed to me before hand .  however , i feel very confident that i , as well as anyone who had seen a few " twilight zone " episodes , would have seen it coming a mile away .  the fact that movie-goers nation wide are surprised by the ending still has me stumped .  ironically , to fully appreciate the best scene ( that of cole and malcolm attending a little girl's funeral ) , the viewer is required to be aware of a very rare psychological disorder called munchausen syndrome by proxy .  i wouldn't have even known about this mental disease if i hadn't , by pure dumb luck , caught " dateline nbc " the other week when they did a feature story on it .  despite being blessed with some really amazing cinematography and a brauva performance from osment ( where was this kid when casting calls were going out for the phantom menace ? ) , in the end , the sixth sense is too chalk-full of contradictions and just isn't plausible enough to warrant even a slight recommendation .  
brian de palma's snake eyes stars nicolas cage's evil twin , who confusingly uses the same stage name as his talented brother .  like a foreign tourist who screams his lines in english to ensure that he will be understood , cage yells with the ferocity of a man with a bad case of caffeine overload .  de palma , whose last great film , the untouchables , was crafted over a decade ago seems to have lost his magic .  in snake eyes , he manages to elicit some of the worst performances possible out of a skilled cast .  only gary sinise rises slightly above the hackneyed material .  the rest of the actors become caricatures in this by-the-numbers thriller .  ryuichi sakamoto's atmospheric and melodramatic music dominates almost every scene .  heavy on the long violin notes , its rhythm is punctuated by thunder .   ( the script by de palma and lost world's david koepp sets the action during a hurricane in an attempt to pump up the adrenaline level and the noise .  only the latter is achieved . )  cage plays rick santoro , a corrupt atlantic city cop who shakes down criminals to get betting money .  the movie takes place over a single evening when a world championship fight is being held .  with a flashy , bad wardrobe and a gold cell phone , rick is an obnoxious cop who doesn't know when to shut up .  spouting cliched and ridiculous dialog , he screams such lines as , " i was made for the sewer , baby ! "  actually the line is more apropos for the movie as a whole .  sinise plays kevin dunne , a naval officer who is in charge of the security for the secretary of the navy , who has come to watch the fight .  but most people in the film are not who they seem to be , and the thin script makes all of them easy to guess .  the plot , which is told in endless flashbacks , concerns the assassination of the secretary through a scheme set up by some malevolent businessmen ? that adjective is , of course , redundant in hollywood thrillers .  the flashbacks become repetitious with the same scene shown again and again , sometimes from a different perspective and sometimes not .  although a brian de palma film requires a certain amount of gratuitous violence , this one is remarkably tame for the man who became famous when he made carrie .  the movie's outline has some promise , but the movie itself is leaden .  the film takes itself all too seriously .  at best , it is a 1940s-style b movie .  a little humor would have helped the script some , but a complete rewrite would have been better .  and , although i hate to say it , a different director would have been the biggest improvement .  snake eyes runs 1 : 39 .  it is rated r for violence and would be acceptable for teenagers .  
a disappointing biography about the homosexual relationship of two famous 19th century french poets .  the film managed to remove all the poetry from the poets and instead concentrated on their abrasive personalities .  the result is merely an academic exercise , leaving an emotional vacuum that it couldn't build on to show them as the poets they were .  on paper , this shouldn't have been so terrible -- it had a talented director in agnieszka holland ( " the secret garden " ) , a proven screenwriter in christopher hampton ( dangerous liaisons ) , and a capable cast .  but the film was done in by its inept script , the unappealing way the film was directed , and the miscasting of leonardo dicaprio as rimbaud .  i found his performance to be the most risible one in the film , with him acting more like a teenage brat than a young genius , spouting obsenities without giving a hint that a true poet lies behind that facade .  he , especially , looked bad because david thewlis as paul verlaine looked so good despite the turgid dialogue that was thrust upon him and how thin a character he was forced to be .  but when the two of them were together , it looked like a mismatch .  leonardo's rimbaud only made the young poet look petulant and crude , yet we know from rimbaud's poetry , that he must have had something going for him because his poetry was awe inspiring .  the film opens in post-revolutionary france in 1871 , the 16-year-old rimbaud has sent the established symbolist poet verlaine a letter with his poems .  he accepts verlaine's praises and invitation to be a house guest in his splendid paris home , and rimbaud leaves his sullen farm in rural charleville .  once there , rimbaud is disappointed in the bourgeoisie household , has an immediate conflict with verlaine's busty 18-year-old wife mathilde ( romane ) , and finds to his regret that the drunken verlaine loves his rich wife for her body and that he lives off her family's money , even though he has nothing else in common with her .  when verlaine states , " poets can learn from one another , " rimbaud replies in a haughty tone , " only if they're bad poets . "  he will continue to treat the older poet like dirt for the rest of their relationship .  verlaine proves to be weak-willed , beating his wife regularly , and plays just as despicable a character as rimbaud .  when mathilde's father kicks rimbaud out of the house , verlaine finds him in a rooming house and the two become lovers .  it's a real downer to watch this story unfold into a series of obnoxious behavior patterns on the part of the two poets , which leads them to traveling together and mathilde asking for a divorce .  in brussels , verlaine gets arrested for sodomy and spends two years in jail .  while rimbaud becomes angered at the literary world and never writes another poem after he becomes 19 .  he instead goes to north africa and becomes an adventurer and a gun-runner , and after ten years there , comes home with a tumor on his knee and dies a changed man at the age of 37 .  the hopeless relationship between the two is what the picture covers in detail and that was not very satisfying .  the film ends on a whimper . . . with  verlaine talking with rimbaud's sister about her brother and the poems of his he still possesses , which the sister wants destroyed so as not to embarrass the family or ruin the name of her deceased brother if published .  this film was especially annoying because rimbaud's poems are filled with a visionary tenseness that are not even approached in this film , as the film only manages to skim the surface of the lives of these poets and completely ignores the value of their poetry .  i have no idea what the filmmaker was trying to say in this film , but whatever it was , it just didn't work .  it certainly didn't bring any light into understanding what rimbaud meant to modern poetry and why he earned the reputation as the so-called father of modern poetry .  
in our time .  in our modern world , where the cool rule , it's hard to imagine that shakespeare is becoming 'the man' .  and yet - film after film , after film , is based on his everlasting magic .  in warner brothers' latest production , shakespeare is kicking ass to a rap beat , while his magic and intelligence slowly fades away .  though the producers of the matrix have vaguely based their picture on william shakespeare's 'romeo and juliet' , its title sequence with a frightening rap song and a black limo making its way through the dark streets of new york , is very hard to associate with shakespeare's poetry .  the film takes place during a silent war between the two major mafia families in the city - the afro americans against the chinese .  the youngest son of a chinese mafia chieftain is found murdered .  the afro-americans are immediately suspected , but a peace treaty is signed between the two godfathers .  it is at this point that han ( the romeo of the story ) finds out about his brother's death .  escaping from a prison in china , he returns to united states to avenge his brother's fate .  but before he can restore justice with his kung fu kicks , he falls in love with a mysterious beauty .  the only problem is that she is the daughter of his enemy . .  there's only a weak echo of shakespeare's talent in this disappointing production .  and there are more problems besides its title .  of course we don't call it a deformation of a great masterpiece .  we call it 'modernization' .  it seems that the producers fear that the audience will not respond to lyrics , without any car chases and gun fights .  this lack of respect for the audience i find very disturbing .  kenneth brannagh has already proven that shakespeare doesn't need to be updated , because his tales are grounded in the basics of life and human nature .  and as long as love , hate , honesty and corruption do exist , everyone will understand and embrace shakespeare .  i must admit that i found 'rome must die' very confusing .  i can forgive andrzej bartkowiak , since it is his first attempt at directing .  he manages to create an incredible atmosphere and directs with a firm precision .  unfortunately he completely forgot about character- and story developments .  his latest picture is therefore visually impressive , but intellectually hollow .  the love story between han ( jet li ) and trish ( aalyah ) , and the mafia intrigues are undeveloped and simplified .  jet li is one of the most amazing fighters to ever hit the silver screen and aalyah has a magical voice .  their achievement save this film from being completely braindead , but they are not actors , and therefore can not act .  they are nothing more than two celebrities put together .  the other actors , including isaiah washington , russell wong , henry o and dmx all give the standard mediocre performances .  delroy lindo is the only one that projects a coherent image of reality .  but there's more than acting to worry about .  even with li's incredible skills in martial arts , the action scenes ( though technically excellent ) are too long and story updates simply embarrassing .  to make a long story short : 'romeo must die' is not intelligent enough to be a thriller , not sensual enough to be a love story and too serious to be a fun action film .  it is certain that bartkowiak would be much better off with o this embarrassing and completely unnecessary parallel to 'romeo and juliet' , so the film is completely stuck - not sure of what to be .  and in the end it's nothing .  there are no performances worthy of notice , no interesting character- or story surprises .  so again , the only good thing about it is its technical achievement .  this film can boast of great sound , fast paced editing , solid cinematography and some very well coordinated action sequences .  the music is another factor that prevents you from leaving the theatre .  it is mostly provided by aalyah's enchanting voice and several carefully inserted rap songs by various artists , that create a kind of 'ghetto feel' to it .  but when i think back , it's not much i remember from this 'production' .  as in almost every summer movie , there are some interesting scenes , but most of the moments that i remember are associated with massive special effects .  it is not a film that will get any attention for its artistic qualities , simply because it doesn't have any .  for someone who has never read shakespeare , it's another popcorn film .  for those of us who has , it's a waste of money , time and brain cells .  
isn't it the ultimate sign of a movie's cinematic ineptitude when you can't think of much to say about it other than " it sucks " ?  one of the first official year 2000 releases , supernova is such a movie .  i can't seem to get past one-word adjectives with this one , although " boring , " " stupid " and " absurd " doesn't amount to much of a review .  a shame .  i would have been able to save myself the chore of desperately trying to elaborate .  but c'est la vie .  here goes nothing .  i'll keep it short .  i suppose the first bad omen for supernova came when director walter hill ( 48 hours ) removed his name from the movie , requesting that it be replaced with the pseudonym thomas lee .  the film's fate was sealed in many minds when struggling studio mgm declined to screen it for the press , an event usually signifying a studio's lack of confidence in a particular movie .  hill's and mgm's actions were prudent .  when the captain of medical space vessel nightingale dies in a tragic hyperjump accident , a reformed drug addict who is also the first officer , for some reason ( james spader ) is forced to take command .  the ship picks up a distress call from a nearby planet and , on arrival , picks up one survivor from an apparent accident in an abandoned mining colony .  one of the crew members ( angela bassett ) knows this passenger , who is played by peter facinelli , and has some bad feelings about it -- and we all know what that means .  this intergalactic hitchhiker is carrying some mysterious cargo -- a jellylike substance the purpose of which is unknown , though it seems to bring some form of pleasure to whoever touches it .  another one of the crew members experiences this first hand ; after spending a few minutes partially inside this glob of goo , he does some impressive handstand pushups .  evidently , touching this enigmatic egg-shaped thingie makes you younger and stronger .  how ?  why ?  the movie never bothers to explain .  soon enough though , spader and bassett are running around the ship like mad , being chased by the all-of-a-sudden-superhuman facinelli .  to be honest , i don't even remember exactly why .  i just remember that i didn't care .  supernova's plot suggested some more or less interesting ideas , such as the ball of goo being an intergalactic time bomb , but they are all dropped before they have a chance to develop into anything truly intriguing .  in fact , everything is dropped just so the actors can have some fun running around what looks like an elaborate set .  well , the effects are good , though there's hardly a studio movie with bad special effects these days so i'm not sure whether that's so remarkable an accomplishment .  the performances are hardly worth talking about .  i'm not even sure i can call what's here " performances , " though angela bassett sure is good at giving people the finger .  james spader is not a bad actor , but he proves to be one of the blandest action stars i've seen in a while , mostly because he isn't given a character with a personality .  the action scenes are just as bland , since they're pretty much just rehashes of action elements that weren't particularly entertaining the first time around .  and since the action scenes are everything to this movie , it's pretty much dead in the water .  and for the life of me , i can't figure out why it's called supernova .  
 " idle hands " is distasteful , crass and derivative .  if an original thought found its way into this horror-comedy it would die of loneliness .  plus , you have to question the judgment and sensitivity of studio executives who would green light the release of a movie dealing with the slaughter of innocent teen-agers the week after the tragedy in littleton , colo .  the movie is insulting to horror film fans and teen-agers .  the plot , what little there is , deals with anton ( devon sawa ) , a high-school slacker who's hand goes on a murderous rampage after becoming possessed .  along the way the hand kills anton's parents and his two best friends .  the friends , also slackers , are so lazy that they return from the dead because the walk into the light was too far for them .  that is the level of this's atrocity's humor .  the movie treats death as a joke .   " idle hands " is gruesome and morbid .  the performances are stereotypical and cartoonish .  i realize this is supposed to pass for comedy , but recent events have surpassed what is on the screen .  it is not the fault of the filmmakers that real life has overtaken reel life .  and i can only presume that the writers of " idle hands , " terri hughes and ron milbauer , were trying to make some statement about today's young people and their values in a satiric vein .  however , it's hard to laugh at death these days , especially ones involving young people .  with the real horrors of the world put before us on television , a stale pastry such as " idle hands " should be held from release for a few weeks or months to give us time to catch our collective breaths .   " idle hands " is bad , no matter the circumstances in the world outside .  but the context of recent events only heightens its shortcomings .  the time is not right for this type of movie .  and as far as " idle hands " goes , the time may never be right .  this is a movie that shoud be consigned to the trash bin of cinema .  
a movie about divorce and custody in 1995 seems about as timely as a movie about mood rings .  family breakups have been an all too familiar part of the american landscape for nearly thirty years , and countless dramas have told stories of acrimonious court battles in hand-wringing detail .  still , i can't recall a comedy about the subject before bye bye love .  and after it , i still can't .  bye bye love is rarely funny , more often a weak and melodramatic retread of common tv-movie fare .  only a few moments which have nothing to do with the film's main premise offer big laughs instead of cliched emotion .  bye bye love follows one weekend in the lives of three divorced fathers who get weekend custody of their children .  dave ( matthew modine ) , a father of two , is an inveterate womanizer having difficulty staying faithful to his latest girlfriend ; vic ( randy quaid ) is a foul-humored father of three about to go on a rare date ; donny ( paul reiser ) pines for his ex-wife and has trouble relating to his teenage daughter emma ( eliza dushku ) .  over the course of the weekend , the three men face various crises , including vic's blind date from hell ( janeane garofolo ) and donny's growing estrangement from emma .  the three lead actors form a rather unlikely combo , and the quality of their performances is of widely varying quality .  randy quaid is the best of the three , bitter without being irritating , gleefully spiteful without being frightening .  his run-ins with is ex-wife ( lindsey crouse ) are a bit over-played , though , and his confrontation with a pompous radio psychologist ( rob reiner ) is gimmicky and implausible .  he does get bye bye love's best sub-plot , a hilarious dinner date with a gloriously demented janeane garofolo , and he does a great slow burn .  paul reiser really has only one character , his slightly befuddled , uptight nice guy " mad about you " persona , but he does it well .  as a personality , he is appealing , but as a character , he becomes pretty boring here .  matthew modine , is , quite simply , terrible .  this isn't a performance good enough to be called mailed-in ; he even forgot to put a stamp on it .  modine lacks any charm in an appallingly under-written role , looks bored most of the time , and gets stuck with a trite little speech about how it's all his father's fault he's such a cad .  carolco's executives , whose entire future is resting on modine's bankability for the upcoming cutthroat island , must be sweating buckets right now .  bye bye love basically comes off as a very confused movie , because it spends far too much of its time on the new relationships of its main characters instead of on the relationships between the fathers and their kids , making it just another " dating in the 90s " movie .  when the movie does deal with the children at all , it is to have one of them scream out an accusation and/or cry , perhaps to be resolved later by a sensitive talk and a hug , perhaps not .  even more confusing is a sub-plot featuring the late ed flanders as a widower who goes to work and a mcdonald's and befriends a troubled youth .  it is a sad end to flanders' career , getting caught up in a truly annoying over-use of mcdonald's as a location , a plot device and , apparently , a major advertiser .  even if bye bye love had decided to spend its time focusing exclusively on the parent-child relationships , it still would have been pretty difficult to pull off , because ultimately there is very little humor one can wring from family break-ups and their effects on children .  any way you slice it , it is a bad situation for kids , and the makers of bye bye love mostly go for the heartstrings when dealing with the single parenting issue .  it is left to the dads' romantic fumblings to probide what little humor there is , and it isn't enough .  there have been comparisons between bye bye love and parenthood , but parenthood was both genuinely funny and genuinely touching .  bye bye love is a genuine shame .  
according to the publicity material , with this movie the directors " hope to restore good old-fashioned bowling to its rightful place in the mainstream of american consciousness . "  hmm .  you never know , they just might be on to something .  what with the rise of geek chic , lounge music and seventies fashion , the ever-contrary kids of the nineties might just latch on to bowling as another terminally unhip bastion of tackyana to claim as their own .  but then , i doubt if kingpin will have anything to do with it .  it's cheesy all right , but connoisseurs of bad taste will find this film exudes that bland smell of stale jokes rather than the invigorating stink of true kitsch .  that's a shame , because , in the first ten minutes or so the film promises to be a lot more .  woody harrelson plays the hotshot bowler on the rise , roy munson .  the movie opens in the fifties with roy's dad dishing out the reader's digest/gumpian wisdom in scoopfuls , shifting to the 70s for a hilarious spoof of saturday night fever .  the sardonic tone of the proceedings is much enhanced by the presence of bill murray , as the delectably slimy big ern mcracken .  it's thanks to murray that the first quarter of kingpin seems so good - he gives the wry , derisive edge to this otherwise rather unfocused comedy .  mccracken dupes munson into a hustling job , then abandons him to an angry mob who mangle roy's hand .  then it's fast forward 17 years later when munson is a fat , balding loser with a prosthetic rubber hand .  he's hopeless until he meets ishmael ( randy quaid ) , an amish amateur bowler that munson takes on as protege .  so together they set out for the million dollar bowling tournament in reno , picking up pretty hustler claudia ( vanessa angel ) on the way .  with the exit of bill murray , the filmmakers seem to have only one direction to go , and that's . . .  dumb and dumber .  yes , indeed , kingpin is brought to you by those modern proponents of laxative humour , peter and bobby farrelly , the directors of the aforementioned jim carrey vehicle .  so , prepare for much slaparound comedy with flying rubber hands , distended nipples , ridiculous hair and bull semen .  get set for stock fish-out-of-water situations when city-boy roy puts on a beard and tries to blend in with the amish community , or when suaku straitlaced ishmael takes on smoking , striptease and unchristian neighbour-socking .  now , don't get me wrong , there's nothing wrong with cheap humour , and i had my fair share of lavatorial laughs with woody and randy .  the trouble is that these jokes aren't bold or funny enough to drive a movie that bumbles along without much sense of direction .  it lurches from sports movie to amish-mocking to road-trip to sentimental melodrama , ( pausing for a broadside spoof of indecent proposal , and many shameless plugs for the accompanying pop soundtrack ) , never quite getting it all together .  some gags fall flat from a lack of build-up , while there are bits and pieces in the movie that simply don't do anything .  why the long , unfunny fight in the car park ?  why two of these ?  why does that guy wear mascara , or that guy have a glass bowling ball with a rose in it ?  the film is full of these half-thought-through ideas that give the impression of any old gaffer , grip or makeup artist throwing in random stuff and saying , " wouldn't that be funny ? " .  well , no , actually .  the actors don't do the movie much favours either .  woody harrelson comes off okay , plausibly acting dumb , smart , cynical or innocent when the implausible script calls for it , but randy quaid is a ceaseless ham , and vanessa angel has no talent ( like schwarzenegger , she seems more convincing playing a computer-creation than a human -- take the tv series weird science . . . please   ) .  even murray hams it up when he reappears in the movie's climax .  all in all , a fairly useless attempt at comedy , and a certified no-hoper at kickstarting the bowling renaissance .  we'll have to look to a reinspired john waters , or perhaps somebody from down under ( " strictly bowling " , anyone ? ) for the definitive bowling comedy .  the flying inkpot's rating system : * wait for the video .   * * a little creaky , but still better than staying at home with gotcha !   * * * pretty good , bring a friend .   * * * * amazing , potent stuff .   * * * * * perfection .  see it twice .  
starring kiefer sutherland ; reese witherspoon & bokeem woodbine i used to think that the conversation was the worse film i had ever seen .  freeway is giving me second thoughts .  freeway is a modern retelling of little red riding hood .  only in the nineties , little red riding hood is a foul-mouthed juvenile delinquent played by reese witherspoon , and the big bad wolf is a serial killer ( keifer sutherland ) .  to top that pathetic premise off -- reese goes to visit granny and you'll never guess who's waiting under the cover's in granny's bed .  keifer sutherland is one of hollywoods most talented , yet underrated actors , and reese witherspoon is exceptionally talented and will most likely become a major star .  so what are they doing in this movie ?  after seeing the end result , undoubtedly they are both asking themselves the same question .  you might be asking yourself why this is such a short review .  the answer is quite simple -- i dont want to waste any more of my time writing or thinking about this movie than absolutely necessary .  i wasted enough of my time just sitting through it .  note to keifer : you wonder why you aren't a bigger star in hollywood ?  because you keep making movies like this .  note to reese : you were great in fear , what happened this time ?  note to both : don't worry about it too much , no one saw this movie anyway .  bottom line -- i'm still shaking my head .  don't waste your time on this turkey .  if you want to see a great keifer sutherland movie , go rent flatliners or young guns .  reese witherspoon's abundant acting talents are used to their full potential in fear , a great thriller .  do yourself a favor and rent one of these movies -- but stay as far away from freeway as you possibly can .  
synopsis : in " sooner than you think " america , the future of law enforcement resides in blade squad , a ragtag group of culturally diverse rollerblading cops with jetpacks strapped on their backs .  a dangerous criminal , however , attempts to destroy blade squad after his brother dies while being chased by them .  comments : so , what do an ex-gangbanger turned insubordinate traffic cop , a former prostitute with a substance abuse problem , and a junkie turned dennis rodman wannabe turned cop who crashed four police cruisers all have in common ?  why , they're all members of blade squad , an elite new crimefighting unit wearing black uniforms , rollerblades , and jetpacks !  they also carry video cameras so they can communicate with one another a la the marines in james cameron's aliens .  yes , it's blade squad , the fox network's wednesday night movie of the week .  this " movie , " marking its dubious world premiere today , curiously has a number of guest stars .   " how can a movie have guest stars ? "  you may ask .  well , blade squad is not really a movie so to speak but a 2 hour pilot for a possible tv series packaged as a movie .  blade squad is dumb .  blade squad is loud .  blade squad is obnoxious .  blade squad will probably be a ratings hit and spawn a long-lived tv series .  why not ?  after all , television has given its audience crimefighters with talking cars ( " knight rider " ) , fast helicopters ( " airwolf " ) , and super fast motorcycles ( " street hawk " ) , and viewers have eaten it up in the past .  so , why not crimefighters with jet-powered roller blades ?  to be honest , as a made-for-tv presentation , blade squad is at least watchable .  the film has a relatively large cast of characters , a surprisingly intelligible albeit predictable script , and enough action sequences to keep one half-interested .  i'd imagine adolescent males , probably the target audience of this turkey , would get a kick out of it .  i tried to keep that in mind when i watched blade squad .  i can remember liking " airwolf " and " street hawk " when i was 10 or 11 .  and , although this isn't saying much , blade squad is leaps and bounds better than the last fox network movie i had the displeasure of wasting time on : the insipidly awful generation x ( a huge disappointment considering the comic book's terrific two-year beginning ) .  but , i digress .  despite its limited appeal , blade squad has a lot of kinks to work out if the movie is to become a tv series .  one , it suffers from mtv syndrome : a lot of quick shots and weird angles continuously jar the viewer's senses while a near nonstop generic rock soundtrack blares incessantly in the background .  oh yeah , dylan's " knockin' on heaven's door " and bowie's " i'm afraid of americans " are used here , in rather poor taste .  two , blade squad needs a new crew for the sound .  the substandard sound editing irritated me to no end .  characters' dialogue , at times , sounded choppy and unintelligible .  during one important scene , a song played loudly in the background .  when a character spoke , the song's volume dropped but did not disappear .  as soon as that character finished speaking , the song's volume immediately returned to its original level until the next character spoke .  this sounds trivial , i'm sure , but it distracted me immensely .  finally , this is commercial television .  foul language is not allowed , typically , on commercial television .  thus , don't use foul language in a made-for-tv production because that foul language has to be censored in some manner .  in an early scene of the film , for example , the lead good guy and bad guy have a minor confrontation in the streets .  when the good guy spouts out a bad word , a driver conveniently honks his car's horn off-screen to muffle the word out .  in a " seinfeld " episode , this technique proved funny ; here , it seemed goofy and cut the dramatic tension considerably .  perhaps future writers , if a show is spun out of the movie , could take a cue from marvel comics' 2099 series of comics .  make up a bunch of new bad words for the future .  this way , you don't need a bunch of honking horns or other silly devices to cover up foul language .  compared to the usual crap broadcast tv networks have to offer in terms of movies , blade squad is a suitable exercise in camp .  when compared to , say , a movie studio film , blade squad has a lot in common with a term which shares its initials : bs .   ( review written august 12 , 1998 )  
what a contrast !  in the space of two days , i saw shakespeare in love and hurlyburly .  i'm not sure you could get two more different movies .  while the former was all over the top , telegraphing everything , shoving its philosophy of life down our throats , hurlyburly was the complete opposite , wound so tight and with so much buried in its script , one could spend weeks thinking about it .  this is one interesting movie .  it's very much in a similar vein to one of my favourite movies of '98 , in the company of men , although not quite so nasty .  there's lots of talking and some scary insights into the world of men .  hurlyburly doens't contain much plot : we just follow eddie ( sean penn ) around as he tries to make sense of his life and the people around him .  his big question is : does it all pertain to him ?  and if it does , how is he supposed to feel about it all ?   " it " means everything : television , friends , events that happen .  i guess it could be summed up more crudely as : what's it all about ?  this is not a movie for answers .  donna ( anna paquin ) gives some but they're not really satisfying : they just lead to more questions .  that's what makes this movie stay on your mind .  these are the sorts of questions that occupy our time .  even when we push them to the background , however we resolve these questions influences everything we do .  the performances are all superb in hurlyburly .  i haven't seen sean penn in much before ( in fact , i can't remember seeing him in anything ) , but he is brilliant in this .  eddie isn't a likeable character , but sean penn makes him understandable .  i don't want to be his friend but i'd like to help him .  chazz palminteri is also great as phil , making him an awful person .  i'd never want to know phil but still i understand why eddie wants to be his friend .  everyone in this film nails their performances , making this world real .  it's a nasty world ; it's a sexist world .  unlike shakespeare in love which is unfailingly politically correct , hurlyburly is a man's world , seen unapologetically through the eyes of men .  i find this fascinating and on two counts , depressing .  first , it's depressing that such a world exists .  a large part of hurlyburly's success is that it convinces me that such people are real and that this sort of environment exists every day in hollywood ; that there are a large number of men out there who believe women to be completely peripheral to their world , toys , playthings .  sure , everyone is background to everyone else but in this world , women are a long way in the background .  second , these are the movies that are being made : stories about men's world .  where are the stories about women's world ?  not the soap operas and the " chick flicks " that are meant to satisfy women , but the real stories that touch on the essence of life like hurlyburly does for men .  hurlyburly is based on a stage play and that is evident from the moment the film starts .  it's very talkative , intelligent and static .  while this can make the film drag a bit , and people sometimes sound like they're quoting textbooks , mostly this is a good thing .  not all films have to be filled with special effects and sweeping panoramas .  not all films have to underestimate the intelligence of their audience .  all it means is that hurlyburly is probably just as effective on video as it is on the large screen .  it also means that you have to pay attention .  
capsule : the running gag pair of characters from all of kevin smith's films gets their own movie .  the gags are sporadically funny .  it is more than occasionally funny for teens who are fond of scatological humor and anti-gay jokes .  the plot is weak and the leads are not a particularly funny comic team .  the little inside jokes and digs at other entertainment and particularly at kevin smith films are the best features of the film .  sadly for me they were just not funny enough to make the film worth watching .  this feels like the high school skit that that the principal would not let the kids do on talent night .   ( and it turns out he had very good reasons . )   , low 0 ( -4 to +4 )  a film needs a plot .  it needs characters for empathy value .  it needs a story and an emotional center .  if a film is just a chain of jokes it can only be so good and any entertainment value will succeed or fail based on how funny the jokes are .  kevin smith has now made two satisfying films , clerks and chasing amy .  with dogma he tried to make a philosophical religious comedy and mixed with a madcap romp .  peter cook and dudley moore did that very successfully with their bedazzled .  but getting the combination to work is very hard to do right and kevin smith's fecal monsters in dogma were not the way to do it .  his remaining two films , mallrats and his new jay and silent bob strike back are aimed squarely at a teenage audience .  jay and silent bob strike back is a compendium of gay jokes , penis jokes , flatulence jokes , film pastiches , and in-jokes .  how funny the jokes are will be a subjective call .  for me , the vast majority of the jokes were just not very funny .  there was not enough cleverness or variety .  it is funny at most once or twice to accuse someone of being gay .  penis jokes work only so many times .  showing up as minor characters in every kevin smith film jay and silent bob were a clever pair of human running gags .  they were sort of the modern equivalents of naunton wayne and basil radford , the comic duo who showed up satirizing the english middle class in several good british post-war films including dead of night , the lady vanishes , and passport to pimlico .  jay and silent bob were originally supposedly typical generation x stoners .  as the series wore on they had larger and larger parts .  in jay and silent bob strike back they are the leads .  jay and silent bob ( played by jason mewes and kevin smith ) are chased away from the front of the convenience store where they were dealing drugs in clerks .  this leaves them at loose ends .  they are not sure what would be worthwhile to do with their lives when they hear that a comic book with characters visually modeled on them will be adapted into a movie .  they decide to devote their lives to wrecking the movie or getting some of that big movie industry cash .  so it is off to hollywood to shake down the movie company and having adventures along the way .  the film is mostly about their adventures on the road and when they get to hollywood  the problem with this comedy team is that neither really pulls his weight to make the film funny .  silent bob , being silent , can only contribute to the comedy by reacting with that very expressive face of his .  this makes his piece of the comedy even less than a straight man like a dean martin or bud abbott would have .  jay has to be the comic .  he could carry the load for both if he were extremely inventive .  the problem is that he is not sufficiently funny .  he is too bland to be the comic half and his lines just do not show any comic flair .  so jay and silent bob are a long way from being a successful comic team .  their starring roles and the low humor make this a comedy for those young at mind and for people who can laugh at gags they have seen before--sometimes just minutes before .  like dogma before it , but definitely not like chasing amy , this film feels more like an amateurish skit than a real movie .  certainly neither the plot nor the characters are at all involving .  they are excuses for gags , many of which still fall flat .  it is dogma without any of the humorous theological content .  the film does not offer much to an adult audience .  i rate it 4 on the 0 to 10 scale and a low 0 on the -4 to +4 scale .  
the previews for the movie are pretty good .  they show a little plot , all the characters , and the emotional highlights , all spliced together to give a general impression of the script .  unfortunately , the full movie adds nothing but 115 minutes .  the residents of mystery love hockey .  mystery and hockey go together like texas and high school football .  the townsfolk love hockey so much that they even acquit a player who's guilty of shooting another man ( yes , that's one of the movie's jokes . )  every saturday , the best players pair off for a game , and the whole town comes to watch .  the town's prodigal son charlie ( hank azaria ) wrote an article on the weekly game for sports illustrated .  mystery's national fame has the town abuzz .  a week later , charlie actually shows up in person , and he brings with him an offer from the nhl .  the new york rangers will come to mystery to play the locals .  the mysterians see this as both good and bad .  on the one hand , they'd love to have the fame and the money of such an exhibition .  on the other hand , they don't want to turn up as the butt of leno and letterman jokes .  the movie follows a handful of lives that are affected by the proposition .  biebe ( russell crowe ) has just been retired from the team and is asked to coach the boys , including his new replacement .  he's already resentful , and to top it off charlie has been making eyes at his wife .  crowe is not given a lot of room to act in this film , so he's just kind of stuck with constantly brooding .  charlie , meanwhile , is resentful of having born in a town where hockey is the only measure of a man's worth .  his " gift " of the feature story , and of the new york rangers , was his way of compensating for not being a better skater .  he hoped it would earn him some respect and merit , but the townspeople find reasons to continue disliking him .  burt reynolds could have been interesting as walter , the judge whose courtroom was befouled by a moronic jury of hockey fans .  walter actually has some experience with collegiate hockey , but he actively tries to put it behind him .  he wants his son to take the game more seriously , but he wants his community to just get over it .  reynolds could have been good , but sloppy writing and/or editing keep walter in the corner , and so reynolds never really gets to pull his performance all together .  one character actually was interesting .  biebe's wife ( mary mccormack ) , like the judge , understood that there was more to life than hockey .  but unlike him she has come to accept the skewed view of the community .  she chose the town and her husband with her eyes wide open .  her unique insight is verbalized once , and it lasts only a scene before it is gone , but her performance carries the hint of some deeper wisdom .  mysterty , alaska follows a handful of other characters , but none are well developed or worth mentioning .  the biggest problem with this movie is that there is no real heart to the story , no underlying thing that the movie is really about .  instead , roach and screenwriters david e . kelley and sean o'byrne try to cram the entire human condition into this sports comedy .  they try to make you laugh and cry , to feel outrage and pride .  they present the framing and cadence for jokes , but there's nothing truly funny .  they show appropriately staged scenes of sadness , but they give you nothing to be really sad about .  as columnist molly ivins would say , it's all hat , no cattle .  the perfect opportunity arises for roach to say what this movie is really about .  there is a funeral scene , played with appropriate gravity and somber music .  it is a chance for the characters to reflect on their lives and decide what's truly important .  russell crowe steps forward to speak , about to spell out the movie's metaphor for us .  he says that what really matters in life is " community . . . . "  then adds " and hockey . "  i guess these mysterians really are as shallow as they appear .  only mildly bad , mystery , alaska probably deserves 2 stars .  i even laughed out loud , genuine laughs in places .  but i docked it an extra half star when mike myers , a friend of roach , turned up in a role that didn't suit him .  myers is a comic character actor .  he puts on masks , becomes an outrageous caricature , and is funny .  he's great as austin powers , dr . evil , or any of his scottish characters .  nobody else in mysterty , alaska is a comic caricature .  all the other people have the feel of dramatic characters in semi-serious roles .  for roach to bring in myers for a few cheap laughs shows incredible contempt toward the rest of his cast , toward his audience , and indeed toward the film itself .  it's an acknowledgment by the director that the film is not worth taking seriously .  
a suave , cool , collected , rich , uptight bad guy = cliche .  a clumsy criminal oaf to add to the laughs = cliche .  a bad guy who owns a wild animal = cliche .  a crooked , chauvinistic law enforcer type = cliche .  at an intense moment , our main character tries to get away , but the car has trouble starting = cliche .  complaining about cliches = cliche .  ok , ok .  so we always hear about cliches .  but if there was ever to be a prime example , the real mccoy is it !  not one uttered word , not one frame of film , not one character in this whole movie isn't a cut and paste example of everything we've ever seen .  they might as well use this as a training film : " how to make a bank robbery film in the 90's " .  karen mccoy ( kim basinger ) is a bank robber who just got out on parole after a six-year stay at the state prison .  she wants to make things right and go straight , especially with the fact that she has a six-year old son out there who doesn't even know she's alive .  aware of mccoy's bank robbing expertise , sniveling bad guy jack schmidt ( terence stamp ) uses the same six-year old to coerce mccoy into returning to her past .  he wants mccoy to pull off an elaborate heist of 18+ million dollars at the same bank she got caught trying to rob six years earlier , which , by the way , is somehow due to schmidt .  and if she refuses ?  who knows what he'll do to the kid .   ( cue sinister laughter )  this movie is so pathetically pitiful that it's hard to know where to begin .  the aforementioned cliches are brutally abundant .  i can't stress enough how every single element , whether it be a character , the dialogue , a plot " twist " , etc . , is so damn generic that you'll wonder if * anyone * is working behind the scenes , let alone in front of the camera .  basinger is absolutely vacant .  and where do they get off trying to make us emotionally attached to her ?  here's someone that spent their time robbing banks , and now as she heads onto the street , we're supposed to feel sorry for her .  as she confronts her son , who doesn't even know who she is , are we supposed to break into tears ? ?  especially when neither basinger nor zach english , who plays the kid , has any depth or emotional-radiance whatsoever .  i suppose i should mention val kilmer .  yeah , that's right - he's in it !  quite sadly too , seeing as how i can discuss everything about the movie and never mention his name .  and he got second billing !  to be fair , i will admit that kilmer had potential in his role as the bumbling criminal wannabe j . t .  barker .  unfortunately the script doesn't allow much room for improvement , and when his character is used like bookends ( he never shows up in the middle of the film ! ) ,  we have no time to appreciate what he might have brought to this project .  the real mccoy just can't keep it's head above water , and soon , * very * soon , sinks into a cliched mess of movie .  the actors are like dummies being moved about by an unenthusiastic puppeteer , and the dialogue , particularly schmidt's trite dialogue , falls like the niagra .  this is definitely one to avoid , folks .  the real mccoy is anything but !  
ironically , one of the themes of 200 cigarettes is that you should try to make the best of every moment in life .  unfortunately i will no longer be able to say that i lived every moment of my life to the fullest , because i spent 95 otherwise perfectly good minutes , watching this sad excuse for a movie .  actually smoking 200 cigarettes in the same 95 minutes couldn't be any worse for you than it is to watch the movie .  not only is it a pathetically bad film overall , but 200 cigarettes actually has no redeeming qualities whatsoever .  the plot is scattered , thin and predictable ; the acting is monumentally bad ; and the style of film making resembles a home video .  it is december 31 , 1981 and the big party is at monica's ( martha plimpton ) house .  but no one has arrived yet .  her 8 invited guests and several people that they have picked throughout the evening are wandering the streets of new york city in various groups .  some of them know each other through their common bond of having slept with monica , and some are total strangers .  but they all are to face their own personal neuroses before night's end .  those who are invited are the ones that have the issues .  it is up to those who aren't to help them come to terms .  first there is eric ( brian mccardie ) who is a former boyfriend of monica's and is just getting over the heartbreak of their relationship terminating prematurely because of his sexual performance , or lack thereof .  he is one of the most bland characters , in a film full of dullness , because he is so utterly predictable and stereotypical , a common trait of this poor production .  bridget ( nicole parker ) and caitlyn ( angela featherstone ) who are both extremely sensuous young women looking for someone to handle their desires on new year's eve and tag along to the party with them .  they stumble across a nameless bartender ( ben affleck ) who is the one truly perfect character in a film of imperfections .  he is nether sexually deprived , nor uncertain about his future , as he is in law school .  his lack of flaws is both boring , unrealistic and painful to watch .  as bridget and caitlyn make passes at him you are neither entertained nor humored by the sub-standard comedy .  moving on , there is val ( christina ricci ) and stephie , ( gabby hoffman ) 2 teenage girls with fake identification and very different thoughts .  val is monica's cousin and a true fan of the new york scene .  on the other hand , stephie is convinced that she is vulnerable to crime when the two venture out of their usual locations in search of the party that they just can't find .  paradoxically , it is 2 punks that they meet at a bar ( actually they attempt to flee from their presence , but aren't successful ) who guide them through their fears and force a level of relaxation upon their warped minds .  of all the insanely dull and uninteresting couples , only one approaches a level of decency in both acting and plot .  wisely , the movie's creators have put heavy emphasis on lucy ( courtney love ) and kevin ( paul rudd ) who are best friends and share the common bond of being dateless .  paul has just broken up with long time steady ellie ( janeane garofalo ) and is starting to come to terms with his loss when lucy informs him that ellie had been sleeping around during their relationship .  however , the only complexity to these two characters is that they seem to want to be more than friends , and that is reiterated when they attempt sexual intercourse in a bathroom stall on more than one occasion during this strange evening .  finally , there are the two worst performances and worst sub-plot of the film .  jack ( jay mohr ) and cindy ( kate hudson ) have been going out for a short period of time and jack just learned that he took cindy's virginity the night before .  while she attempts to play this down and be her usual self , he is a predictably self loathing male as he attempts to deal with a string of one night stands that includes the recently deflowered cindy .  very often , when a film is as putrid as this production , there will at least be a decent quality of film making to reveal an occasional moment of glory .  however , this film has neither the quality of cinematography nor the moments of glory to be highlighted .  instead , what you get is a collection of rough and inconsistent cuts , bad continuity and inaccuracies .  first , and most noticeable is that as the film goes from one subplot to another , there is no apparent order that it follows , and it is also weekened by unnecessarily edgy edits from scene to scene and shot to shot .  at other times , objects seem to get up and move and hairstyles and costumes change from shot to shot .  there are also at least 4 scenes in a taxi cab that go from start to finish .  not in a single one of them does anybody pay the driver .  and yet , no matter how miserable this film may be , and no matter how poor the acting is all around , there was a ray of a hope for these many bad plots .  perhaps , if the makers had just decided to concentrate on one or two or , perhaps , even three , there might have been the time and opportunity for some character development , or quality acting , or even a decent plot payoff at the end .  but it didn't happen that way .  the cast of quality name actors was forced into roles that not even one of them could convert into a mediocre performance , and every story line crashed and burned quicker than it takes for the ball to drop at midnight .  
1990s would remembered as the era of binary movie events in hollywood - two movies dealing with the same subject , or , to be precise , same " high concept " .  in summer 1994 , that " high concept " was " mad bomber action thriller " .  in few weeks , " thrillride of the summer " actionfest speed was followed by rather action thriller blown away , so disappointing that most of the people these days associate the title with the 1992 thriller in which nicole eggert did few nude scenes .  the movie begins in the prison in northern ireland , where gaerity ( tommy lee jones ) , ira terrorist with the great talent to make lethal explosive devices from almost any material , escapes from prison .  he comes to boston , where he accidentally notices jimmy dove ( jeff bridges ) , dedicated bomb disposal expert within boston police .  few people except gaerity know the dove's violent past , when he used to be ira terrorist before becoming sick with violence , betraying gaerity and emigrating to america where he changed the name and started using his experience for good purpose .  gaerity holds dove personally responsible for his captivity and begins the campaign of bombing terror , directed specifically at dove's colleagues , friends and relatives .  dove , who is just going to retire and start family , now must confront the mad bomber .  while speed doesn't even try to bother with plot and characters , using them only as an excuse for long and spectacular action scenes , blown away tries to be more conventional and provide the action with some back story .  and that is the main reason why it is inferior to speed .  badly written plot and badly written characters are sometimes worse than no plot and no characters at all .  screenplay by john bateer and john rice , barely touches the complicated issues of northern ireland , using the tragedy only as the cheap backstory for even cheaper drama .  the plot is , of course , full of implausibilities .  the main one is the fact that movie fails to explain how the single individual , no matter how brilliant he is , can produce thousands of deadly devices and hold entire city at bay .  those questions , same as in the case of speed , could be forgotten while the action goes on , but the pauses between action scenes are filled with cliched and predictable situation that should provide some background to the characters .  because of them , movie seems a little bit too long , and boring at times .  the most annoying element of the film , however , is tommy lee jones in the role of mad bomber .  his acting is so over-the-top that potentially fascinating villain turns into pathetic caricature of himself .  this role is in painful contrast with the strong performance given by that same actor in fugitive .  the film have few bright points , though .  some of the action scenes are fine , which should be credited to director stephen hopkins ( predator ii , judgement night ) .  and forrest whitaker really shines in minor role of dove's colleague .  but , all in all , blown away is a film that was justifiably shadowed by its more famous , yet hardly unforgettable competitor .  
don't get me wrong -- i tend to appreciate besson's naive , unashamedly romantic worldview , an artsy european sensibility gone thoroughly hollywood .  his 1994 leon is exciting and absurdly moving , thanks mainly to the interplay between jean reno and a young natalie portman , and 1997's the fifth element is a goofy paean to love , l-u-v , that's even more of a hoot on repeated viewings .  but his joan of arc is a mess , despite some stirring battle scenes and the mostly knockout presence of a close-cropped milla jovovich as the maiden herself .  jovovich , besson's own personal muse through the making of his last two films ( though they've since separated ) , is magnetic and energetic enough to play a credible joan ( as long as you believe joan was not just a warrior , but also a fabulous , supermodel-level babe ) .  and besson remains a servicable action film director , though not an especially facile one .  leading her army against the seemingly impenetrable fortresses of the english , joan's struggle against great odds is undeniably stirring , and besson helps you understand how the french could believe , fervently , that god is on her side .  besson's big mistake , i think , is trying to dramatize the interior life of his subject .  yes , joan had visions -- but i guarantee that whatever image a sympathetic audience conjures in its collective mind will be more compelling than the blue-eyed christ figure on display in besson's hallucinatory dream sequences .  the whole conceit turns into a disaster right about the time dustin hoffman ( billed as " the conscience " ) shows up , spouting platitudes and sending poor milla running around her cell , babbling like ally mcbeal .  that's kind of a shame , since she does quite well up to that point , charging into battle with a banshee wail that suggests the eruption of a sublimated bloodthirstiness .  that darkly attractive aspect of her character -- that she's as likely a charismatic madwoman as the vessel of the lord -- is more or less betrayed by the final reels , in which the conscience browbeats her over the killing she's overseen and joan starts to look like little more than a very confused young lady who's about to take a fall .  as the story winds down , with joan condemned to a horrible death by fire , besson is aiming for tragedy and psychological significance .  trouble is , he's chosen a lurid , often jokey tone for the balance of the picture -- including some blithe cgi bloodshed in the battle scenes -- and it's impossible to shake the feeling that this particular vision of the middle ages is , to a great extent , nothing more than a put-on .  this glib , pre-fab version of such a great story makes me all the more grateful for dreyer's the passion of joan of arc ( 1928 ) , a film whose dialogue is drawn from the actual transcripts of joan's trial , and which stands as one of the most harrowing experiences in all of cinema .  compared to that film , the messenger plays as a crime against history .  -------------------------------------------------------------- directed by luc besson written by besson and andrew birkin cinematography by thierry arbogast music by eric serra starring milla jovovich france/usa , 1999  theatrical aspect ratio : 2 . 35 : 1 --------------------------------------------------------------  
delicatessen ( directors : marc caro/jean-pierre jeunet ; screenwriters : gilles adrien/marc caro ; cinematographer : darius khondji ; editor : herve schneid ; cast : dominique pinon ( louison ) , marie-laure dougnac ( julie clapet ) , jean-claude dreyfus ( clapet-the butcher ) , karin viard ( mademoiselle plusse ) , ticky holgado ( marcel tapioca ) , anne-marie pisani ( madame tapioca ) , jacques mathou ( roger ) , rufus ( robert kube ) , howard vernon ( frog man ) , edith ker ( granny ) , boban janevski ( young rascal ) , mikael todde ( young rascal ) , chick ortega ( postman ) , silvie laguna ( aurore interligator ) , howard vernon ( frog man ) ; runtime : 96 ; miramax/constellation/ugc/hatchette premiere ; 1991-france )  reviewed by dennis schwartz  a black comedy set in the near future in a boarding house run by a depraved butcher .  the comedy is played more in comic strip style for entertaining value than for deeper satire , as it features mostly zany sophomoric sight gags and relies heavily on special effects .  the world has fallen on hard times and there are food shortages which include no meat , so the butcher serves up meat from human flesh to customers who pay with grain , almost as valued a commodity .  that's the big joke in the film and the novelty of that cannibalism idea wears thin mighty fast , as the characters are too absurd and sketched too thinly for us to care about them .  this tasteless postapocalyptic french comedy is a first feature for the co-directors marc caro/jean-pierre jeunet .  it failed to reach my funny bone and instead left me mostly annoyed at its slight story and its dark projections for the future .  an ex-circus clown named louison ( dominique pinon ) , the film's too-good-to-be-true hero , answers an ad for work as a handyman for clapet ( jean-claude dreyfus ) , and the butcher and landlord , offers him room and board in his house .  the butcher's clumsy and near-sighted daughter julie ( marie-laure dougnac ) falls in love with the skinny , weird looking clown , and the two make some music together , with her playing the cello and him a saw .  they are the innocents , surrounded by a boarding house of misfits suffering from fear and watched over by her overbearing father , who has lured into his tenement the clown , as he has his past innocent victims , so that he can put his cleaver to him and then sell him as meat , which he intends to do as soon as the clown fixes up the tenement .  the entire film takes place in the shabby tenement , and the tenants are an odd lot of bizarre malcontents , who do not trust each other .  there are two youngsters ( boban janevski & mikael todde ) who do any kind of mischief they can .  a frog man ( howard vernon ) who lives with water on the floor so he can raise his frogs and snails that he eats .  two brothers ( mathou & kube ) who create little cow-moo novelty toys .  a man ( holgado ) who sells a bullshit detector to the butcher for his piece of meat .  a slutty woman ( karin viard ) , who lives with the butcher and only wants his meat .  the aristocratic woman ( silvie laguna ) who tries numerous times to commit suicide but is too inept to do it right .  the tenants are too afraid to come out at night because they know what the butcher is up to , so they are forced to communicate with each other through a pipe that runs through the building ( in one scene they are all in musical harmony to the lovemaking of the butcher and his gal , as their bedsprings squeak ) .  there is also a sex-crazed postman ( chick ortega ) , who lusts for the butcher's daughter and carries a gun while delivering the mail .  there is also an underdeveloped subplot about a band of incompetent underground veggie fanatics , called trogolodistes , who have been summoned to rescue the clown and steal some grain .  the directors overloaded the film with too many eccentrics , as the comedy seemed forced while the surreal look of the film added no dramatic intensity .  delicatessen could have some appeal to the cult film crowd who like their meat sliced thin , monty python fans , and those who liked terry gilliam's brazil , a film similar in spirit .  
it's a shame the execution of this concept falls very short of its premise .  the movie is lacking and most unsatisfying .  osmosis jones is crude , gross , disgusting , and was directed by the farrelly brothers - the twisted siblings behind there's something about mary , me , myself and irene and a couple of other movies in which the humor is mostly targeted below the belt .  not that there's anything wrong with scatology .  i bet even cavemen appreciated bathroom humor - such as it was .  it's merely that with osmosis jones , the farrellys humor is too juvenile , too predictable .  you can almost foresee the puns just by viewing the part of the inner anatomy a sequence is drawn .  osmosis jones looks like one of those old health class movies gone psycho .  the trouble is , the animation may please the very young , but the jokes may be over their heads , while the teen-age audience may find it too tame for their tastes .  adults ? well , let's just say most will find it unappetizing .  osmosis jones plays like a 100-minute infomercial for the eat healthy foods lobby .  the live action sequences revolve around frank ( bill murray ) , who seems to be the grungiest human being in the universe .  he continually looks as if he needs a shave and a shower .  frank , much to the consternation of his daughter , is a fast-food addict , eating anything - and everything - that can kill you .  he works at a zoo where the animals look cleaner - and presumably smell better - than he does .  frank's body is invaded by thrax , a lethal virus , after frank eats a hard-boiled egg that had fallen to the ground .  it's not gross enough that frank picks the egg up from the dirt and plops it into his mouth .  nope , the farrellys pile it on by first having frank wrestle a chimp for the egg , wresting it from the primate's mouth .  like i said , the gross meter tips the scales on this one .  after ingesting the egg , the movie begins its animated sequences .  here , osmosis jones ( voiced by chris rock ) , a renegade white blood cell is teamed with drix ( voiced by frasier's david hyde pierce ) , a 12-hour , painkiller cold capsule to battle thrax ( smoothly voiced by laurence fishburne ) .  basically , what we have is a cliched cop-buddy movie , rife with all the clich ? s of that genre .  and this is why osmosis jones doesn't click .  it merely falls back on tired , familiar conventions instead of creating new and exciting situations .  the jokes and puns are lame : osmosis searches out a snitch , a former flu virus .  after pumping him for information , drix tells osmosis , " funny , he doesn't look fluish . "  and the jokes don't rise above that level .  the live action scenes are no better .  frank is such a slob , so unappealing that it is difficult to fathom how he ever married or even sired a child .  he's almost a bigger cartoon than the animated characters .  osmosis jones is a movie that may be too violent for young children as thrax burns and dissolves blood cells right and left .  the animation is rather two-dimensional and flat .  it lacks scope and depth .  it is an unappealing movie that will leave you scratching your head , and maybe leaning toward a shower after you walk out of the theater .  
has hollywood run out of interesting characters and plot-driven suspense thrillers that we must spend two hours watching will smith and a gritty gene hackman exchange obtuse dialogue and run around dodging fireballs ?  in enemy of the state , that is exactly right .  a few parts the net , and a few parts conspiracy theory , enemy is about as exciting as watching smith talk to cgi aliens in 1997's lame brained men in black .  will this guy ever get a real role ?  he has the bruce willis syndrome .  the plot is bascially smith , playing a lawyer , getting into hot water with some high government murderers , who assassinated a powerful political figure earlier in the movie , when a tape of the killing gets into his hands .  he inlists the help of an old conspirator ( hackman ) , and , at the end , er . . . you  know .  enemy was one of the worst films of last year .  not only was it sloppy in telling its story and getting its facts straight , the acting was mediocre when it should have been energy driven , and i didn't like how smith always magically out-smarted the badies when all the other extra characters , seeming more intelligent than smith , somehow got run over by a truck .  enemy came out around the same time as the superior star trek : insurrection .  i know these two films are different in , well , everything , but the fact that enemy outgrossed insurrection just baffels me .  somehow , quality can't overshadow quantity .  
vegas vacation is the fourth film starring chevy chase and beverly d'angelo as the heads of the hapless griswold family .  as with the other three films , their two children , rusty and audrey , are played by a revolving series of actors .  this time ethan embry and marisol nichols fill the roles .  also back , is cousin eddie ( randy quaid ) , the slob relative who seems to bring problems wherever he goes .  in vegas vacation clark griswold ( chase ) decides to take the family on vacation to las vegas so that he and wife ellen ( d'angelo ) can renew their wedding vows .  it is at this point when comedy is supposed to ensue .  apparently the filmmakers thought that putting the griswolds into las vegas would be so funny on its own that they wouldn't bother to write any jokes into the script .  at least that's the way it looks when watching this turkey .  about half way through vegas vacation i began to have serious doubts as to whether there would actually be a single laugh in the entire film , since there had been none up to that point .  by the end of the movie i had actually snickered a couple of times , and i had smiled at a couple of gags .  i might add that none of the funny ( and i use the term loosely ) moments came as a result of anything chase , d'angelo or quaid were involved in .  they might as well have stayed home for as much as they contributed to this film .  the two best things in this movie were ethan embry and marisol nichols as the griswold kids , who manage to have a couple of their own adventures .  rusty becomes a vegas high roller , providing most of the film's best moments .  every time chase and quaid were involved in a gag , it just made it more and more apparent that they should have stopped this series after the third film .  which brings me to the best moment of the film .  the griswolds are driving down the highway and holiday road ( the theme from the original vacation ) begins to play .  christie brinkley and her red ferrari ( also from the first movie ) drive by .  it was a cute moment , but all it really did was remind me just how funny the first film had been , and just how far that this series has fallen .  too bad .  
burnt money is the perfect festival film .  it will show once or twice , and then no one , thankfully , will ever have to hear from it again .  this film from the seattle international film festival 2001's emerging masters series is easily one of the year's worst .  billed as a gay `bonnie and clyde' , this gritty film from director marcelo pi ? eyro has its only highlight in a well-designed title sequence .  two gay lovers get involved in a bank robbery that makes a gang leader , whose plan they screwed up , angry .  this causes the gang leader to send his boys out to get the gay guys , one of whom may not actually be gay .  hiding out in a prostitute's apartment , the two men must fight off police and gang members in a very long showdown for the movie's conclusion .  if caught , they risk losing all the money , and their love .  as an added emotional bonus , one of the gay men is dying .  or something like that .  everything that happens is so quick and confusing i was completely lost .  clarity isn't exactly this movie's striving virtue , so it was a little hard to pick up .  not much could have really happened though .  the main events in this long two-hour film are explicit homosexual and heterosexual sex , graphic drug use , extreme violence , and strong language .  lots of explicit material is never a bad thing when there's a reason , but there's no purpose to anything in this film .  most of the sex and violence scenes come off as silly , while the heavy drug use comes off as ridiculous and depressing .  it appears pi ? eyro ( who co-wrote with marcelo figueras , from a novel by ricardo piglia ) purposefully adds more blood and lovemaking for his own amusement .  he makes the actors as sweaty and dirty as possible , makes them snort cocaine , gives them guns and condoms , and lets them go .  burnt money is pointless .  the performances are bad .  it tries to thrill and shock , but only causes boredom .  god forbid it will ever get a distributor .  another disappointing film from this year's so-called emerging masters series .  pass on by .  
claire danes , giovanni ribisi , and omar epps make a likable trio of protagonists , but they're just about the only palatable element of the mod squad , a lame-brained big-screen version of the 70s tv show .  the story has all the originality of a block of wood ( well , it would if you could decipher it ) , the characters are all blank slates , and scott silver's perfunctory action sequences are as cliched as they come .  by sheer force of talent , the three actors wring marginal enjoyment from the proceedings whenever they're on screen , but the mod squad is just a second-rate action picture with a first-rate cast .  
the haunting , a film so confusing that it forgets the true meaning of a horror film : to scare us .  if you've ever seen a movie , which you probably have considering you are on this website , you should know about all of the trivia they post before a movie .  they have things like illustrations and you have to guess the movie or facts about the film .  but , the one i always like are the &quot ; other name&quot ; joke that try and rename a particular film .  for instance , the one playing before the haunting had different titles for the film , small soldiers .  they had titles like little infantry and can i get those fatigues in a smaller size ?  well , after seeing the haunting , i had a few particular names for it as well .  unfortunately , i can only post one of them , otherwise , i'd be getting some pretty angry e-mails from overprotective mothers .  that title would be the confusing .  ok , that is a pretty bad title , but it fits this film perfectly .  it basically serves up no purpose , and combined with dry dialogue and a boring and confusing plot , it completes the formula for a cinematic bomb .  liam neeson once again gets wrapped up in a film without any depth , but at least the phantom menace was exciting and had some depth .  the haunting is nothing but trash , but unfortunately , will still make a boatload of money .  before i rant and rave about how bad this film is , let me point out the few , and i stress the word few , bright spots in this film .  first , the house is great- looking .  it looks beautiful , but this is also a dark spot .  it looks so great that it is hard to be frightened by it .  this is something that rears its ugly head at all points of the film .  things look so great , that you are looking on in awe instead of being scared straight .  haunted house films have to contain one element to even be slightly successful and that is being eerie .  the hill house is not eerie .  it is beautiful , but not the least bit frightening .  ever heard of lili taylor ?  before this film i did not , but i am glad that i do now .  she gives the only satisfactory performance in the film .  despite the dry dialogue and boring/confusing concept , she manages to light up the screen every time she appears , but unfortunately , her co-stars are usually following right behind .  owen wilson , who plays luke , is the only other cast member even close to giving an admirable performance , other then taylor .  he is basically there for the comic relief , and his character development is poor in all other areas .  all of the characters are desperately underdeveloped .  wilson had potential as luke , but it seems they just needed him to add a few laughs .  liam neeson and catherine zeta-jones suffer from the dialogue and plot and should not have been in this film .  their characters must suffer from wicked mood swings because in each scene they turn from ruthless to compassionate to scared to brave and whatnot .  they just are not believable and this is the final nail in the haunting's coffin .  the plot is terrible .  the opening scene of the film is very important , but the director makes it too obvious by getting close-ups of all the things that will play a major role in the end of the film .  as i sat through the film , i kept wondering what this film was trying to accomplish .  nell , lili taylor's character , goes from the hunted to the savior .  it makes no sense and the director gives the audience no reasoning for the ridiculous changes that take place in the film .  he forces the viewer to make various assumptions and does not give any in-depth information .  for instance , the beginning of the film gives us a sense of why nell is getting involved in the program .  but , we get zilch for the other four .  plus , two of them get wiped out in the first ten minutes .  and the worst part : most horror films have killings .  for some reason , they kill off luke at the end of the film .  no reason whatsoever , just off with his head , literally .  overall , the haunting is the epitome of a bad movie .  bad plot , confusing storyline and a waste of good talent .  hopefully , liam neeson can rebound and get into a good film and be used to his full potential .  hopefully , lili taylor will be recognized for doing such a great job in such a bad film .  and hopefully , other horror films , such as the blair witch project and the haunting of hill house , will not be as bad as this one .  
in 1989 , director edward zwick began his career with the powerful civil war drama , " glory , " but since then , he has made continuous disappointments , to me at least , with 1994's " legends of the fall , " and 1996's " courage under fire . "  those two films weren't bad , just not very good , but with zwick's latest film , " the siege , " he has finally made one .   " the siege , " is a modern-day action-thriller that focuses on terrorism that is sweeping through new york city .  investigating the matter is fbi agents anthony hubbard ( denzel washington ) and frank haddad ( tony shalhoub ) , who are first hit by the ordeal when a city bus explodes with several innocent people on it .  later , a bomb goes off in a broadway theater , killing even more .  they soon meet cia operative elise kraft ( annette bening ) , who may very well hold the key to the identity of the arab terrorist .  there are some movies that simply don't need to be made , and , " the siege " may very well be one of them .  oh , sure , zwick thinks he is making a " meaningful " action film , since he has added lots of exposition scenes in which the audience is basically lectured on the horrors of terrorism , but what he really has made is actually no more substantial than , say , " die hard , " which also starred bruce willis .  this time , willis is horribly wasted as a general of the u . s . army , who puts a state of martial law over nyc during the climax .  whatever points , " the siege , " earnestly tried to make , were obviously lost in the translation from page to screen , or maybe , zwick never really had anything serious to say in the first place .  the role of the arab community is offensively stereotypical , just as women were in the recent , " john caprenter's vampires , " by placing them all in the category of " bad guys . "   " the siege , " contains three fine actors---washington , bening , and shalhoub---but washington is stuck with a character that contains not an ounce of even remote development .  bening has slightly more to do , and has an intriguing character to work with , while shalhoub pretty much steals the show , even though , again , he has no real character .  by the climax of , " the siege , " with washington giving a sermon to willis on the so-called " message " of the story , i felt like i had wandered into a sequel to , " on deadly ground , " in which steven seagal gave a 10-minute speech at the end about preserving the environment .   " the siege " is constantly heavy-handed , not entertaining or insightful , and just goes to prove that not even the best actors can save a film that lacks a satisfactory screenplay .  
i guess that if a very wild bachelor party had gone really bad , there would be broken furniture , traces of smack and cocaine on the floor , and a dead prostitute in the bathroom .  i guess that if a movie had also gone really bad , there might be the same elements present .  coincidence ?  poor kyle ( a meek looking jon favreau ) . . . he is about to marry his radiant fiancee , laura ( cameron diaz ) .  but before he exchanges his vows , he embarks to las vegas with his friends for one last blowout .  but this bachelor party has gone about as bad as it could possibly get .  the prostitute has met a horrible , though accidental death , and drugs are everywhere .  the five friends agree that there is enough bad evidence here that will send them to jail for a very long time .  a surprisingly calm robert boyd ( christian slater ) , who looks like he was groomed to make nefarious decisions , ponders their dilemma for a few minutes before deciding that the best thing to do is to bury the body in the desert where she'll never be found .  although they stomach the gruesome deed of getting rid of the body ( which also disturbingly involves dismantling the body using power saws in order to stuff it into suitcases ) , when they return from their trip , guilt and paranoia begins to set in which slowly consumes some of the five friends .  one is adam ( daniel stern ) he grows increasingly agitated .  whenever people look at his van or whenever a cop glances his way , his blood pressure increases .  or that just may be because of his dysfunctional family .  another is michael , who was actually responsible for her death .  he tries to bury his feelings , but the burden of guilt begins to affect his judgment as well .  boyd is the ? doer' of the group .  seemingly suffering from a long psychosis , when he feels as if his secret is about to be exposed , he is apt to take extreme measures to cover up his tracks .  kyle just hopes that his wedding will live up to laura's demanding expectations .  then , there's moore ( leland orser ) who speaks 5 lines and walks around with a puzzled look on his face .  the problem with this reprehensible movie is that it wants to be a cruel comedy , but it presents things in a manner that just aren't funny .  drugs , mutilation , and killing your own friends isn't something to be laughed at .  as a straight psychological drama , i could see how it might have worked , as each one tried to maneuver and overcome the weight of their own guilt in their own sometimes-sick ways .  but this movie insults us by assuming that we could simply discard our values for 2 hours .  if you do like this movie , i don't think that i want to know you .  i did find slater a convincing leader who sways his friends to choose not the right thing but the ? smart play . '  and diaz adds some brightness to this film as a wedding-needing fiancee .  but her talents are essentially wasted here .  it's obvious that the film maker is trying to strike a certain tone .  but the way that he chooses to do it is tasteless .  do not make a very bad decision by seeing this film .  
i had been looking forward to this film since i heard about it early last year , when matthew perry had just signed on .  i'm big fan of perry's subtle sense of humor , and in addition , i think chris farley's on-edge , extreme acting was a riot .  so naturally , when the trailer for " almost heroes " hit theaters , i almost jumped up and down .  a soda in hand , the lights dimming , i was ready to be blown away by farley's final starring role and what was supposed to be matthew perry's big breakthrough .  i was ready to be just amazed ; for this to be among farley's best , in spite of david spade's absence .  i was ready to be laughing my head off the minute the credits ran .  sadly , none of this came to pass .  the humor is spotty at best , with good moments and laughable one-liners few and far between .  perry and farley have no chemistry ; the role that perry was cast in seems obviously written for spade , for it's his type of humor , and not at all what perry is associated with .  and the movie tries to be smart , a subject best left alone when it's a farley flick .  the movie is a major dissapointment , with only a few scenes worth a first look , let alone a second .  perry delivers not one humorous line the whole movie , and not surprisingly ; the only reason the movie made the top ten grossing list opening week was because it was advertised with farley .  and farley's classic humor is widespread , too .  almost heroes almost works , but misses the wagon-train by quite a longshot .  guys , let's leave the exploring to lewis and clark , huh ?  stick to " tommy boy " , and we'll all be " friends " .  
the original babe gets my vote as the best family film since the princess bride , and it's sequel has been getting rave reviews from most internet critics , both siskel and ebert sighting it more than a month ago as one of the year's finest films .  so , naturally , when i entered the screening room that was to be showing the movie and there was nary another viewer to be found , this notion left me puzzled .  it is a rare thing for a children's movie to be praised this highly , so wouldn't you think that every parent in the entire city would be flocking with their kids to see this supposedly " magical " piece of work ?  a tad bewildered , but pleased to not have to worry about screaming kids and other disruptions that commonly go along with family films , i sat back for 97 minutes and watched intently and with a very open mind , having great expectations for the film .  looking back , i should have taken the hint and left right when i entered the theater .  believe me ; i wanted to like babe : pig in the city .  the plot seemed interesting enough ; after the events that took place in the original , babe the sheep-pig has become a legitimate national phenomenon .  but after a fateful encounter with a water well , arthur hogget ( james cromwell , who the movie could have used alot more of ) has been rendered bed-ridden for a number of weeks and the farm begins to go under financially .  the only solution that his wife ( magda szubanski , going from delightfully charming to downright annoying ) can come up with is to make an appearance with their new celebrity pet at a national fair ( i think ) and to use the money they earn to pay off the bank ( set aside for the moment the fact that they could get more than enough cash from donations if they just made their case known to the public ) .  problem is , the fair is being held in the middle of the dreaded " city " , a completely foreign place to both the pig and his companion .  setting the main plot in motion , mrs . hogget and babe travel to the unnamed city and shack up with a sweet lady who just happens to love to help animals , despite the law that you cannot keep them in hotels .  it is here that we meet an array of eccentric characters , the most memorable being the family of chimps led by steven wright .  here is where the film took a wrong turn .  up until this point , i had being having a rather enjoyable experience .  the beginning featured some smart writing and funny situations involving the farm animals from the first one and even an inspired moment at the airport where mrs . hogget is accused of smuggling drugs .  unfortunately , the story wears thin as we are introduced to a new set of animals that reside at the hotel , none of them being even one-tenth as interesting as the characters from the previous babe .  the main topic of discussion surrounding babe : pig in the city is the question of whether or not it is to dark and disturbing for small children , and i believe it is .  at one point , a dog is hung from his neck and slowly starts to drown .  at other times , we are treated to surrealistic flash-backs to mrs . hogget's full cavity search at the airport .  in fact , the overall tone of the movie is rather bleak and depressing .  however , that is , as they say , neither here nor there because kids will probably not like the movie anyway .  the animal characters and their plights were simply not intriguing enough to sustain my interest for an hour and a half , let alone entertain a child .  another problem i found with the film was it's sudden change of pacing and tone near the end of the story .  if you're going to make a darker and more sinister sequel , fine .  it may not be my cup of tea , but at least it is a noble ambition .  but to go from the downbeat feel of the rest of the movie and all of a sudden have slapstick finale with mrs . hogget swinging from wall-to-wall of a ballroom in elastic overalls ?  it just didn't feel right and was more painful to watch than it was funny or entertaining , and the same goes for the rest of the movie .  
to put it bluntly , ed wood would have been proud of this .  a totally ridiculous plot is encompassed with bad humor , hokey drama , zero logic and a crap screenplay .  also , a beautifully anti-climactic ending .  not to say it didn't look intriguing when i saw the previews .  so much for truth in advertising .  roland emmerich , who's later " independence day " would look like " the 400 blows " compared to this , co-writed and directed this inane sci-fi film which uses the cliche of there being some connection between eqypt and aliens .  in a useless opening sequence , men find a stone in 1914 with hieroglyphics on it .  it wouldn't be till present day ( '94 ) till they would actually figure it out .  they're decipherer ?  a slightly-neurotic scientist ( nice twist ) , dr . dan jackson ( james spader , doing his best outside of erotic thrillers and some indy fare ) who's life sucks so much that people walk out of his lectures after the third word .  why do they use him to decipher what no one else could ?  so there is a hokey ending !  duh !  he figures it out in about a minute .  yea .  and then they get a suicidal colonel or something , " jack " o'neill ( kurt russel , with his wyat earp locks in the beginning then a flat-top that would make howie long snap into a fetal position ) .  why a suicidal colonel ?  for the ending !  you'll get the hang of this .  they open the stargate , a bunch of them go through it with a bomb to blow it up if they find anything bad .  after an overdone special effects thing , they're . . . inside a goddam pyramid .  so they went to egypt , right ?  wrong .  they're on another planet that was filmed in egypt .  they discover a cilvilization ruled by ra , the sun god ( the androginous jaye davidson , with a voice modifier to make him sound like barry white with asthma ) , and there are fights , explosions and a kiss between two people .  yea .  also melodrama , stupidity , hokey scenes and a bizarre language .  an anti-climactic ending ends with stupid lines ( " say hello to king tut , asswhole ! "  - the quintessential line , lemme tell ya ) and some convenient pesudo-pseudo-pseudo-character development .  by the end , you just wanna go home and watch , i don't know , the " outer limits " or something .  the script's terrible .  the special effects are okay , but nothing great .  the story's so weak that it's almost opaque .  the whole experience just isn't worth it unless you're so bored that you'd consider watching a " full house " marathon . . . or  this .  i'd pick this , obviously , but still , it's just not fun at all .  and i can't wait for it to premier on mst3k .  
i wonder if budget is at all a criterion for whether or not a movie can be considered an exploitation flick .  take the professional , for example .  it boasts extremely glossy cinematography , a couple of recognizable name actors , and a couple of fairly impressive explosions .  it's also basically about violence and cheap titilation , and features a central relationship between a middle-aged man and a twelve-year-old girl with a decidedly ambiguous sexual dimension .  the professional is all over the map , and its pretensions of being about anything more than its most unpleasant elements simply make it all the more unpleasant .  the professional of the title is a new york hit man named leon ( jean reno ) , brutally efficient but also very isolated .  one day he is forced to let someone into his life when a girl from his apartment building knocks on his door .  her name is matilda ( natalie portman ) , and the rest of her family has just been killed by crooked and very wired d . e . a .  agent norman stansfield ( gary oldman ) after matilda's father tried to rip him off .  leon reluctantly takes matilda in , then begins to teach her his profession when she says that she wants to avenge the murder of her young brother .  the two become closer , which makes them all the more vulnerable when stansfield learns that they know too much , and sets out to eliminate them both .  writer/director luc besson has gone this route before with his popular french import la femme nikita , a slick potboiler about a female assassin .  there is no question that besson can make a great * looking * film ; with the assistance of cinematographer thierry arbogast , he has created a film chock full of moody close-ups and evocative lighting .  but beneath the shiny wrapper , there isn't nearly as much going on as besson would like us to believe .  the relationship between leon and matilda never clicks because neither one is given a character to develop .  leon is mostly a collection of quirky traits , all intended to show us that for a hired killer , he's really not so bad a guy : he drinks lots of milk , takes meticulous care of a potted plant , and enjoys gene kelly movies .  jean reno succeeds at giving leon a haunted and desperate quality , but he never makes an emotional connection to matilda .  natalie portman is all wrong for a part that called for a much grittier quality , but she doesn't have too much to work with , either .  besson would have been better served spending more time trying to bring his characters to life , and less on feeble attempts at humor which are often embarrassing .  a silly game between leon and matilda involving celebrity impersonations is completely out of place , as is a scene where matilda shocks a hotel manager by announcing that leon is her lover ; character is thoroughly sacrificed for a cheap gag .  gary oldman's entire part is something of a cheap gag , wild-eyed and way over the top , but at least he is interesting to watch .  there isn't a real person to be found anywhere in the professional , which isn't always a problem in an action thriller , except that this one is trying to pass itself off as something more .  a more disconcerting problem with the professional is that it plays around with the sexuality of a twelve-year-old in a really distasteful way .  there were only two real choices for dealing with that component of leon and matilda's relationship : confront it head on , or ignore it entirely .  but besson flirts and teases the audience with the idea that he's going to show them a forbidden love story , while choosing simply to focus his camera on portman's rear end and dress her in skimpy clothing .  this is to say nothing of the questionable decision to make it look like quality paternal time when leon is teaching a child to load a 9mm pistol , or the blood which is spilled aplenty .  a great deal of the time , the professional is just plain sleazy , and all the soft filters in the world can't disguise that fact .  
one of these days , i'll make good on my promise never to rent another abel ferrara movie .  king of new york and body snatchers notwithstanding ( and bad lieutenant is only fit for a single , emotive viewing ) , his exploitation flicks have fallen into a rut of hoary art-house trappings .  it's a perfume-drenched , coke-addled visit to the seedy pornography shop , where beautiful models ( no , hookers -- no , courtesans ) usher you through the silk curtains .  ferrara's only consistently smart move has been casting christopher walken over and over again , since walken can make a good movie great and a loathsome movie durable whenever he's onscreen .  his 8-minute scene in the addiction is the saving grace of that otherwise abysmal , unwatchable , and pretentious failure .  when he starts talking about his vampiric bowel movements , or questions whether lili taylor has ever read naked lunch , there's a much-needed dose of humor in an otherwise terminally unfunny affair .  you know those gothic club kids who are too cool to smile and let you know they're actually having fun ?  the addiction is that movie .  walken , sadly , does not appear in the blackout .  the central role of matty , a junkie film star whose lightning paced hollywood life among the beautiful people is inevitably leading to his destruction , is played by matthew modine ( who takes what he can get after cutthroat island ) .  much like the protagonists of michelangelo antonioni's terminally bored cultural elite , matty is involved in a bitter pill " relationship " with high fashioned model annie ( at least i think she's a model . )  matty's lady is played by french actress b ? atrice dalle , arrested twice for cocaine possession during filming of the blackout -- not that you needed to know that , but it lends credence to the idea that ferrara's entire oeuvre has been filmed in a fucking blackout .  no kidding .  requiem for a dream has nothing on the junkie presentations seen in ferrara's movies and his controversial urban lifestyle .  matty and annie struggle over her decision to have an abortion without consulting him .  no doubt , he was off chasing the dragon .  in his despair , matty indulges in a chemical induced weekend of debauchery , tooling around the streets of miami with video filmmaker mickey wayne ( dennis hopper , in full " dirty ol' man " mold smacking models on the ass and telling them to spread their legs .  wider ! )  toward the end of the night , they pick up a teenage waitress also named annie ( sarah lassez ) , start shooting a hastily improvised sexual scene , then matty thankfully blacks out .  something happened that night which haunts him throughout the rest of the movie , and it's exactly what you think it was .  suffice to say , there's some confusion over whether he killed annie one or annie two , or anyone at all .  the blackout is typical ferrara : no plot to speak of , plenty of raunch , and horribly vogue images of matthew modine downing a bottle of jack daniels and a beer while wrapping himself in a see-through curtain in his hotel room by the sea , by the sea , by the beautiful sea .  cinematographer ken kelsch finds inconsistent glory in alternating gorgeous painterly sunsets with docu-style sleaze ( and we're back to dennis hopper leering at girls in bathing suits .   " yeah ! ! !  yeah ! ! !  arrrghhh ! "  says mr . hopper .  dirty old sod . )  it's compulsive viewing in a tacky sort of way , leading to a ridiculous climax where modine seizes control of his destiny .  how's that for cryptic ?  never fear -- ferrara finds time for some female full frontal nudity to remind us what he's all about .  i can picture it now .   " take off yer clothes , kid -- it's essential to depict the inner maelstrom of my central protagonist , and you're his visual id .  you're the soul , the heart , the bloodstream of the picture .  take it off !  take it all off ! ! !  ha ha ha ! "  friggin' vampire .  yeah , you , ferrara .  a final word about matthew modine : he's actually a fine actor when properly cast , but there's something too squeaky-clean in his demeanor .  he's ideally suited for sarcastic men in tightly controlled situations , such as his private joker in full metal jacket or the time-bomb nebbish in short cuts ( who is every bit as superb as julianne moore in that famous scene , though no one seems to notice him ) .  [he was in that scene ?  -ed . ]  here , he's asked to let it all hang out , sporting a three-day stubble and oily bangs .  he throws around furniture like stanley kowalski , but it's somehow lacking .  modine lacks the feral intensity of brando , entirely miscast in ferrara's flesh fair .  better luck next time , matt .  someday , you'll be forgiven for cutthroat island , which wasn't really your fault in the first place .  maybe atom egoyan will find a place for you somewhere , and all will once again be well in your world .  
making your first feature film ain't easy .  assemble a decent , if not , strong cast , as writer/director robert moresco has done with one eyed king , and you're already ahead of the game .  but rehash old plot lines , tired dialogue , and standard clich ? s , and a well-intentioned effort such as this one could jeopardize your chance at a second feature film .  how many more movies do we need about a rough neighborhood full of lifelong friends hopelessly turned to crime or worse ?  the enormous catalog of such movies might dissuade a filmmaker from making yet another , but here we have it .  again .  five irish kids in nyc's hell's kitchen make an overemotional pact over some stolen rings on an anonymous rooftop .  with teary music .  and slow motion .  in the film's first scene .  the kids grow up to be fairly worthless adults , unable or unwilling to make their way out of the heat of the kitchen .  leading the clueless pack is william baldwin as a good-hearted guy who watches out for his buddies and is in tight with local mob head armand assante .  i'd like to say that his character gets involved over his head in some sort of blah , blah , blah , but all we seem to get are little tastes of possible plot points .  he's concerned about buddy jason gedrick's heroin abuse .  he sticks up for jim breuer after he impregnates baldwin's character's sister .  he looks into who might be pushing the most moronic-looking counterfeit cash ever made ( a genuinely funny touch ) .  but none of this ever really amounts to anything .  it seems that moresco's greater concern is to provide that intangible " slice of life " , that flavor of the neighborhood that everyone's been trying to evoke since scorsese's early work .  so , we get the drunk guys , hugging and singing together at the local bar , to prove to us that they really love each other .   ( do people actually do this ! ? )  we get a lot of tough street talk -- usually mumbled for effect -- and a whole lot of the f-word , whether it sounds like it fits or not .  we also get a handful of good actors in small roles that seem to lack purpose .  bruno kirby , chazz palminteri , you know , guys you've seen in movies just like this one before .  assante is intelligent casting as the man that everyone fears , and baldwin's performance is adequate , but most of the rest of the cast jump into the tough guy persona so thoroughly that it's almost funny .  moresco , a theater guy and sometimes tv writer ( including the series falcone ) , obviously labored over this one as anyone might a first child , but the content is probably too personal .  as a result , the movie's style is heavy-handed , in need of a considerable amount of toning down .  nearly every time an action by the grown up gang recalls something they did as kids , moresco reminds us -- boy does he remind us .  with slow dissolves to the earlier scene , running in slow motion , complete with dialogue from the present , just in case we don't comprehend the link to the past .  moresco needs to either trust his audience's intelligence , or have more faith in his own presentation rather than beat us over the head with it .  his next project should have a little more personal distance , and a lot more subtlety .  if he actually gets that chance .  reviewed as part of our 2001 boston film festival coverage ( feature story coming soon ) .  
whenever u . s . government starts meddling into other countries' affairs , under the pretext of supporting human rights or preventing political , religious or ethnic persecution , the other side is ready to use mantra that says " look who's talking !  what have you done to the indians ? "  however , even the americans themselves are ready to use that dark chapter of their own national history when it suits their purposes .  hollywood is just another example , with its revisionist westerns , made in early 1990s .  those movies tried to exploit the emerging wave of political correctness , coinciding with the 500th anniversary of columbus' discovery of america .  one of such examples is geronimo : an american legend , 1993 western directed by walter hill , film that deals with one of the last conflicts between american natives and white settlers .  the hero of the film is geronimo ( played by wes studi ) , leader of apaches , fierce warrior tribe that used to give hard time to white settlers during the second half of 19th century .  when the movie begins , in 1885 , geronimo and his apaches made peace with u . s . government and try to live peacefully in arizona reservation .  however , broken promises , injustice and violence against his people would make geronimo restless .  with not more 30 or so of his followers , he escapes reservation and begins guerrilla campaign .  general crook ( gene hackman ) , commander of u . s . army forces , respects geronimo and knows that even his 5 , 000 force isn't enough to catch geronimo in the great spaces of the american southwest .  instead , he turns to people who are more experienced with apaches - lt . charles gatewood ( jason patric ) and indian hunter al sieber ( robert duvall ) .  together with young lt . britton davis ( matt damon ) they would begin mission aimed at capturing geronimo .  geronimo : an american legend , like many movies made under the shadow of political correctness , try to tell the tale about oppressed minorities , but instead the real subject is the bad conscience of the oppressors .  so , the story about geronimo is told from the perspective of his enemies .  almost all of them happen to be his greatest admirers and use every opportunity to express how sorry they feel for having to fight him and his people .  although such elements of john millius' screenplay do indeed have some basis in history , they harm the story of geronimo .  to be honest , walter hill does try to make geronimo the real hero of the film , but the movie segments that deal with the plight of apaches and the uprising are given too little time .  instead , they turn out to be nothing more than the back story for rather uninteresting adventure story of gatewood and his band .  to make even worse , hill has some real problems with pacing and style , and in the end we have impression that we are watching two films badly edited into one - story about geronimo and story about his pursuers .  the movie should have been better if it turned to geronimo's life before and after his last uprising , in many ways more interesting than the story about gatewood .  the difference between those segments could be observed through the different quality of acting .  wes studi , cherokee actor who was so impressive as magua in the last of the mohicans , was perfect choice for geronimo , not only because he resembles geronimo , but because he induces a lot of passion in his role .  contrary to him , we have disinterested actors who sleepwalk through the roles of his white enemies .  while this could be expected from someone like jason patric , it is shame when we have veterans like gene hackman or robert duvall .  even hill's directing is bellow expectations - battle scenes are too short and , like in many of his late films , force viewers to ask what had happened to the great action director of 1970s .  even his old associate , music composer ry cooder , disappoints , with the score that shifts between indian motives and classic .  on the other hand , photography by lloyd ahern ii , with the use of red lenses , gives somewhat dreamy atmosphere , ideal for this movie that was supposed to be melancholic epic .  all in all , compared with some of the hollywood's examples of political correctness , this film isn't so bad , but we are left with the unpleasant impression that it could have been better .  
aspiring broadway composer robert ( aaron williams ) secretly carries a torch for his best friend , struggling actor marc ( michael shawn lucas ) .  the problem is , marc only has eyes for " perfect 10s , " which the geeky , insecure robert certainly is not .  meanwhile , marc's spoiled ( hetero ) female roommate , cynthia ( mara hobel ) , spends her days lying about their apartment and harrassing magazine editor tina brown .  writer-director victor mignatti's " very romantic comedy " ( as the ad campaign states ) is supposed to be ( pardon the pun ) a gay ol' romp , but it's hard to have much fun with these annoying , self-absorbed characters and their shallow personal problems : marc and cynthia have sitcom-level domestic " crises " ( such as trying to kill bugs--how hilarious ) ; robert and marc go to acting class ( how riveting ) ; the zaftig cynthia goes on eating binges ( how original ) .  but more than anything else , the three whine .  constantly .  marc whines about his turbulent romance with an apparent " 10 , " david ( hugh panaro ) , the hunky musician from across the way ; robert whines about not being able to find the right guy ; cynthia whines about having to find a job ( horrors ) .  the terrible trio whine their way to a happy ending that is wholly undeserved .  add in overly broad performances and some laughable lipsynching by panaro , and you're left with one astonishing piece of cinematic damage .  
 " easely one of the worst films of the year . . "  with the millenium just around the corner , hollywood is playing with our insecurities concerning the biggest event of this century .  this time it is arnold schwartzenegger against the powers of evil .  the result is somewhat predictable .  i didn't have high hopes about arnold's " much anticipated " return to the big screen .  schwarzenegger fans will probably be pleased , action lovers won't be bored , and the catholic league will be angry .  everyone else will see 'end of days' for what it is : a deliciously bad motion picture .  think of it as hollywood's own y2k bug .  did you know that if you turn the three diabolical numbers 666 you'll get 999 , as in 1999 ?  yes , you better believe it . . satan is here on earth , working on his latest project -- the end of days .  this time it is gabriel burne who gets the privilege to play lucifer and , although not al pacino , he is fun to behold .  he coolly strolls through manhattan in the borrowed body of an investment banker , wreaking , as they say , havoc .  the way it works is he smirks and something explodes .  before the stroke of the new millennium he's got to find and impregnate a certain woman in order to climb out from under a heavenly curse as spelled out in the book of revelations .  only schwarzenegger's cop attached to an anti-terrorist unit can stop him .  films like this has one serious weakness -- logic .  no matter how you twist the " plot " , you'll find it incredibly stupid ( even for a schwartzenegger movie ! ) .  the incredible fact is that such directors never learn .  after thousands of headless productions , this theme has become one big clich ? .  here the devil looks more like a sex addicted maniac that has just got out of a mental institution .  he is walking around n . y . , blowing everything up and killing everyone that gets in a 5 meter radius .  all he wants is the girl , that is somehow special .  but schwartzenegger is more clever than he looks , he has hidden her in a church , where satan dare not enter .  so the evil one is forced to seduce the good cop in order to get the valuable information : " you can have your wife and daughter back . . i  can give you happiness that you can only dream of . . just  give me the address . . "  indeed with a script like that , you could make a wonderful parody , but unfortunately the director is taking this subject very seriously , attempting to create a provoking an dramatic thriller .  and for you who have awaited arnold swartzenegger's comeback , will not be very satisfied .  we've not seen him in a while .  that's because he didn't have a worthy opponent .  he has battled nuclear terrorists on earth and power mad conspirators on mars .  he has taken on alien predators in the darkest reaches of the jungle and morphing cyberkillers that seemingly nothing can stop .  so , after all those fights , what's left for arnold schwarzenegger ?  how about satan ?  in my opinion , he has never quite overcome his first role as the deadly robot in cameron's " terminator " .  and that is schwartzenegger's strength -- muscles and no emotions .  here he tries to achieve an artistic level , moving towards the oscar .  this is called " an adult turn " if successful and " a flop " if unsuccessful .  make a wild guess !  his character has lost his wife and daughter and has serious drinking problems .  this requires at least some acting skills .  regrettably , the only thing convincing about old arnold is his muscles .  the rest of the cast are struggling with their so called characters .  the movie is otherwise technically impressive , with a solid cinematography and fine lighting .  but the movie doesn't serve neither as a serious thriller ( because of its stupidity ) nor as comic entertainment ( because of its serious tone ) .  the only real comic relief in this film is when swartzenegger tries to cry .  the action sequences are all recycled and the effects are everything but spectacular .  so i really have a hard time recommending this film to somebody .  unless you are a die-hard schwartzenegger fan , stay away .  as for schwarzenegger , he'll be back .  
these days , people have rather short attention span and hardly anything can satisfy them for the long run .  1970s nostalgia is already wearing off , and now , people are becoming more and more interested in 1980s .  few years in the future , early 1990s are going to be regarded as next golden age of nostalgia .  however , i doubt that people are going to be very nostalgic about the hollywood products of that period .  one of the reason would surely be films like national lampoon's loaded weapon 1 , that , in many ways , symbolise the biggest problem of contemporary american film industry - lack of originality and ideas .  being made as some kind of parody on lethal weapon series , this film pairs two l . a . policemen - jack colt ( emilio estevez ) , burn-out alcoholic cop on the edge , and wes luger ( samuel l . jackson ) , by-the-book policeman , days away from retirement .  two of them , following the murder of luger's ex- partner , must confront evil general mortars ( william shatner ) , crime lord who is going to flood the market with cocaine stashed in wilderness girl cookies .  the authors of this films ( whose director , gene quintano , worked on such projects like third and fourth sequel of police academy ) lacked any original idea before they undertook the projects , and that reflects in the lack plot , characters , and , even original lines .  the plot , or what goes for the plot in this movie , is nothing more than a series of gags that make laugh of some popular films made in previous few years ( apart from lethal weapon series , this film " borrows " its female lead from basic instinct ) .  the best gags , are , same as with many other similar movies , shown in the trailers .  the rest simply doesn't work .  only those who used to watch a lot of hollywood products in that period would laugh .  others would probably wince at the lameness of humour .  some would be entertained by celebrity cameos that pop up every once in a while .  but , at the end , spending hour and half in front of this disorganised mess of a movie is simply not worth the effort .  the film was sometimes criticised for being the parody of a series that already had strong comic overtones .  the authors of lethal weapon returned the favour by using the loaded weapon 1 joke in their fourth sequel .  
paul verhoeven , the dutch auteur who dragged his violent , sexually aggressive aesthetic into american film , has never been what i'd consider a thoughtful director ( though some of his films , notably starship troopers , have been lauded as artistic achievements ) , but he is the kind of hollywood film maker who's managed to , no matter what the budget , make his films distinctive and even sometimes smuggle stimulating themes into the lavish high concepts on which he toils .  starship troopers was essentially a b-monster movie remake of his enthralling dutch war film soldier of orange ( a great film that's nearly impossible to find on video , yet showgirls is everywhere ) , in which he cast a troop of stunningly attractive mannequins ; the square jawed casper van dien and denise richards ( who may actually be 45% silicone ) , in what feels like an american propaganda picture set to monotonous scenes of graphic carnage .  it's not a completely successful film , but as a failure it's certainly an interesting ( and mostly entertaining ) one .  my favorite verhoeven films were the ones he made before he hit our shores ; spetters , a dark near pornographic coming of age film set within the sub-culture of drag racing and the aforementioned soldier of orange ( haven't yet gotten around to seeing the 4th man or turkish delight ) .  i believe his best hollywood film to be robocop , a bleak super-hero satire with a robotic hero that's as touching as schwarzenegger's in t2 .  that movie was violent but not in the overdone cartoonish manner of more recent verhoeven pics .  its violence seemed to be there for a purpose , namely to create an atmosphere of unpredictable dread , not to simply titillate an attention deprived audience .  there's a jaw-dropping scene within the first ten minutes of robocop wherein the lead villain toys with a cop before snuffing him .  he tortures the officer by taking glee in his victim's every fearful tic .  it's a startling moment of barbaric , maddening violence that effectively sets the tone for the film that could be designated as splatter punk-noir .  in hollow man kevin bacon brutally slays a dog because it just won't shut up , he impales a co-worker , drowns another and so on .  but why ?  his character is introduced as a smug genius , the kind who's always impeccably dressed and races a sports car while generic rock tunes blare from his stereo for the world to hear , sort of like a scheming uber villain from dallas or melrose place , though once the character becomes invisible , this film has him pull a 180 shift into a psychotic movie monster .  the kind who just won't die .  hollow man's protagonists are the completely bland but beautiful scientist linda ( elizabeth shue , acting as if she were rebecca of sunnybrook farm ) and her lover , a hunk of beef scientist played by josh brolin who's saddled with the film's worst lines ( " i've lost cohesion again ! " ) .  they're a typical aaron spelling couple , good-looking but as vacant as george w . bush's republican national convention speech ( i . e .  bush referring to clinton ; " ? ? ? so much promise ? ? ? but to what end ?  to what end ? " --  this actually got applause !  suddenly warren beatty doesn't look so absurd ) .  the rest of the film's characters are all well past thirty , though act like annoying high school party animals insulting one and other with a series of strained one-liners ; is it just me or have labored insults become big budget hollywood's new character developing technique ?  ahh , what a cynical time we live in ? ? ?  as the picture opens we meet cain ( kevin bacon ) , an egocentric scientist working with the crew of aforementioned irritating scientists on a top secret ( so top secret the government has only provided them with a dilapidated warehouse in which to perform their extensive experimentation's ) project with the goal to make invisibility a possibility ( for what purpose is never hinted at ) .  they've performed several experiments on animals and have nearly solved the quandary causing caine , in a twist worthy of the film's 1950's late show origins , to impulsively experiment on himself .  caine neglects to let the pentagon in on his plans and somehow gets two of his co-workers to lie for him so the rest of the crew will think the pentagon gave the go ahead .  our mad scientist is turned invisible ( after several fx-heavy complications ) , then he inexplicably ( it's hinted that the process of invisibility has made the animals into more savage creatures , but this is never explored , and if that was the case why the hell would anyone be stupid enough to test this out on a human ? )  begins raping , assaulting and murdering anyone he pleases , always with a lame wisecrack ready a la freddy krueger .  it grows abundantly clear with each new release that it's verhoeven's films that have become hollow .  like the rest , this one is cold , heartless , and full of contempt for humanity , but in addition to all that it lacks any trace of wit , insight and makes no statement other than " audiences will pay for anything these days " .  it's an affront to anyone looking for something stimulating on an intellectual level , or even those hoping to spend a saturday night with a fun , thrill-a-minute ride .  verhoeven has instead served up an utterly routine mad slasher flick with nobody to root for and no reason to care .  the previews make hollow man look like an irresistible flick .  how can one not have a good time at a film that utilizes state of the art fx to illustrate an invisible man getting down and dirty with his bad self ?  a couple weeks ago , after seeing the trailer , a bunch of friends and i got into a long discussion of how invisible man flicks never go so far as to have the invisible individual indulging in their newfound ability .  hollow man looked like the first film to do so and whoa , in a serious manner to boot .  but oh yeah , it is directed by paul verhoven not atom egoyan or peter greenway .  verhoeven delivers the sleazy " goods " , but not in a watchable or thrillingly disturbing manner , here it just feels icky and uncomfortable .  the director keeps his camera trained at his nubile actresses , caressing their breasts with his lens all while faux-psycho music strains in the background .  it's plainly obvious that verhoeven isn't exploring voyeurism ( like in the classic peeping tom ) but exploiting it and not even doing that very well .  it's funny that with all the technology $90 million can get you verhoven is stuck at trying to figure out how to show a woman's naked breast manipulated by an invisible hand .  most vexing is that the invisibility aspect is used simply as gimmick in yet another slasher movie wherein characters do stupid things just so the villain can pop up for more attacks .  in fact it's largely irrelevant that bacon is invisible since , by the end , most of his potential victims don infer-red glasses that track his body heat .  as in every mad slasher film we get the killers pov ( a scene where he spies on his neighbor while she undresses triggered unpleasant memories of slumber party massacre ) , and lots of scenes where people are unknowingly stalked .  the film only provides one moment that i found genuinely creepy .  it happens when a lab assistant ( kim dickens , who looks like she stepped out of playboy ) in the middle of a chit chat with an invisible bacon , suddenly pauses .   " are you looking at me ? " , she queries , obviously haunted .  it's a little moment in a big film with nothing to offer but ground breaking special effects set to a plot that should have run its course by 1982 ( the apex of the mad slasher craze ) .  those special effects are so stunning they alone keep this from being as bad as urban legend or i still know what you did last summer .  and they're the only reason to check out hollow man , preferably as a mid-week bargain rental .  you've been warned .  but you probably won't listen , will you ?  tis' a pity ? ? ?  
fact that charles bronson represents one of the most important movie icons of the 1980s represents one of the biggest and almost tragic ironies of that decade .  tragedy lies in the fact that the icon status was earned less by quality of his work in movies , but the quantity .  most of those movies were produced by cannon group , company led by israeli producers menahem golan and yoram globus .  those two men probably thought that they could be the next roger corman , b- movie mentors of future hollywood legends .  unfortunately , that didn't happened , and when cannon finally went bankrupt at the end of the decade , behind it stood the huge pile of cinematic garbage , that would require at least few centuries before it reaches the camp appeal .  sadly for bronson , that garbage also contained numerous movies in which that capable character actor and action hero of the 1970s tried to raise their worth simply by being the main lead , and lowering his own reputation in process .  on the other hand , bronson could take comfort in a fact that those movies were extremely popular , especially among the audience 3 or 4 times younger than bronson himself .  one of such movies that seriously marred bronson's reputation is death wish 3 , third sequel in the series which began with death wish in 1974 .  in the original movie , bronson played paul kersey , mild-mannered new york architect who turns into deadly street vigilante after his family fell victim to urban violence .  that movie was far from masterpiece ; yet , in it the director michael winner was skillfully offering the cinematic remedy for very real disease of growing crime rates of the time ( on the same lines like siegel in dirty harry ) .  unfortunately , six years later cannon group got rights to the character of paul kersey and began destroying it by pumping out sequels ; even the presence of its original director didn't stop the rapid decline of the quality .  death wish 3 begins when kersey comes to visit an old friend , living in the urban wasteland of east new york , populated by young criminals and people too old or too poor to move out .  before the reunion , kersey's friend falls victim to the street gang led by evil fraker ( played by gavan o'herlihy , probably the only noteworthy role in the film ) .  kersey decides to avenge his death and slowly prepares for his crusade , while the police inspector shriker ( ed lauter ) , ants to use him as a secret weapon in his losing war against the urban crime .  bronson , the main asset in this movie , plays the character who is nothing more than an efficient killing machine .  although bronson's charisma does help in overcoming some implausibilities ( single man in his 60s and armed with a single pistol manages to wipe out dozens of opponents with superior firepower ) , the lack of emotions or bronson's own commitment could be seen in a very few lines spoken in a film .  the movie authors were somewhat aware of that emotional shallowness , so they added romantic interest for their hero - public defender played by deborah raffin and conveniently terminated in order to give some more motives for kersey's crusade .  on the other hand , emotions are much better played by confronting law-abiding , yet ethnically stereotyped citizens with their daily nemesis of street punks - ruthless enough to exercise their reign of terror on the entire city blocks , and stupid enough to be killed in droves by kersey .  unfortunately , michael winner doesn't know how to work out the plot , and after torturing the viewers with mostly uninteresting characters and cliched and formulaic situations , ends this movie with a bang .  the big showdown at the end - that turns east new york into the sarajevo-like battle zone - is probably the worst part of the movie , because of the poor editing and the cheap sets and props that give away the low budget .  in short , this movie could be recommended only to the most fanatical charles bronson fans or for the people who are already desperate for 1980s nostalgia .   ( special note for trekkies : marina sirtis , the actress who played counsellor deanna troi in star trek : the next generation could be spotted in a small role of portorican wife ) .  
overblown remake of the 1963 robert wise film of the same name ( based on shirley jackson's novel " the haunting of hill house " ) stars lili taylor as one of three " lab rats " that participate in a supposed " insomnia " study being initiated by liam neeson .  he is actually conducting a study on the causes of fear and why the human mind is still affected by it .  he drags the test subjects out to a foreboding mansion where all types of " creepy " cgi effects scare the cast and try the audience's patience .  i know this question has been posed before , but why do people keep remaking good movies ?  the original was a great psychological horror film .  this new version is dull and very decidedly not scary .  in fact , i feel it is downright impossible to make a modern day pg-13 horror movie that is scary .  unless you find obvious computer generated special effects frightening , then there's nothing in this film that will raise hackles .  i nearly fell asleep twice during the film , and probably would have if they guy two rows behind me didn't seem to have such a personal relationship with the characters that he felt he needed to discuss every decision they made with them as the film progressed .  it's sad to see such an amazing cast wasted so badly .  owen wilson spends most of the film wandering the halls of the house , and the script does no justice to his wonderful comic ability .  catherine zeta-jones ( always nice to look at ) is given the woefully underwritten role of a bi-sexual insomniac that gets to run out of her bedroom perplexed every time some strange noise occurs .  liam neeson pops in from time to time to talk into his tape recorder and attempt to convince the others that he has as much knowledge about what's going on as the rest of them do .  finally , poor lili taylor , the center of the film , gets the brunt of the cgi effects thrown at her while everyone else gets to scream and try to rescue her .  apparently , a subplot involving a tryst between zeta-jones and taylor's characters was filmed but removed .  that's too bad , because it might have lent some better characterization to the narrative .  this is jan de bont's second straight misfire ( speed 2 : cruise control being the first ) .  when is he going to learn that bigger is not always necessarily better ?  robert wise knew that when he made the original and the makes of the blair witch project also knew that .  one should not approach a haunted house movie with a twister mindset .  if de bont and screenwriter david self had let our minds fill in the blanks as to what was happening instead of showing us everything , it would have served to make the film terrifying .  what our mind fashions on it's own can be a thousand times more frightening than having having it completely led towards everything .  apparently , yet another version of this story is being filmed under it's original title .  i certainly hope that this newer rendition will not be hurt by the insanity of jan de bont's version and that it will retain the psychological impact that the original release had .  [pg-13]  
 " tarzan and the lost city " is one of the most anemic movies to come out in quite a while .  not only it is poorly written , badly acted , and generally incompetent in all cinematic areas , it is thoroughly uninspired and insipid .  unfortunately , it's not bad in the way great , colossal misfires like " heaven's gate " ( 1980 ) or " ishtar " ( 1987 ) were bad .  instead , it literally drips off the screen like a movie nobody wanted to be associated with , which begs the question of why it was made in the first place .  with all the good scripts lying around hollywood un-produced , how does needless drek like this make its way to the big screen ?  of course , tarzan is one of the most filmed characters in all of motion picture history - he has appeared in over forty films , which have ranged from the very good ( 1984's " greystoke : the legend of tarzan , lord of the apes " ) down to the really bad ( 1981's " tarzan , the ape man " with bo derek ) .  most of these films were just cheapie b-movies made in the thirties and forties , starring ex-olympic athletes and a lot of cutsie chimps .  therefore , if another tarzan movie is to be made , one might assume that it would have something new to offer - a different angle , an original storyline , anything to set it apart from all the others .   " greystoke " added a never-before-seen level of realism to the pulpy tale , and even " tarzan , the ape man " at least had the mis-guided audacity to sexualize the story as a vehicle for bo derek's bare breasts .   " tarzan and the lost city , " on the other hand , has absolutely nothing to offer but a bunch of recycled storylines and bad dialogue .  the script , by bayard johnson and j . anderson black is about as formulaic and generic as they come .  comic books have better plots than this .  the movie is so bad , in fact , that it retains that ridiculous tarzan call that was so tirelessly mocked in last summer's comedy " george of the jungle . "  didn't the producers think to leave that back in the old weissmuller pictures where it belongs ?  the story starts with the legend of tarzan already firmly established : a quick opening narration tells of tarzan ( casper van dien ) being found in the jungle after having been raised by apes , and his return to england where he assumes his greystoke heritage .  when the movie starts in 1913 , he is a civilized english gentleman ( without an english accent ) , and he is to marry jane ( jane march ) in less than a week .  however , when a wicked archeologist/grave-robber named nigel ravens ( steve waddington ) begins hunting for the fabled lost city of opar , one of africa's last great secrets , the witch doctor of an ancient african tribe summons tarzan back to the jungle .  at first , jane refuses to go , pouting about how it will interfere with their wedding ; but after tarzan leaves she changes her mind and tracks him down , therefore assuring lots of lame smooch scenes between her and her ape-man .  once the film gets going ( in its own sluggish way ) , it delves into a series of jungle adventures , as tarzan , jane , and the natives attempt the thwart ravens and his crew from discovering the city .  most of the so-called adventures are cheesy , predictable , and unexciting , with no pace , tension , or action to speak of .  there are sequences stolen from innumerable recent adventure movies , ranging from " raiders of the lost ark " ( 1981 ) to " the goonies " ( 1985 ) .  when the movie is running short on action , it includes a few greenpeace-friendly scenes of tarzan freeing caged animals , releasing a baby elephant from a trap , and throwing ivory tusks into the river .  the movie is also lacking even a remote hint of reality .  for instance , when tarzan - who was raised in the jungle - is bit by a cobra , he doesn't even attempt to suck the venom out like any semi-experienced weekend backpacker would do .  instead , he ties a tourniquet around his arm and stumbles off into the jungle with no plan for survival .  of course , one can't help but notice how fundamentally misleading the title is .  not to ruin the ending or anything , but there is no lost city .  there is , however , a lost pyramid , which i suppose is all the resource-strapped fx department could come up with ( the special effects are not worthy of a made-for-tv movie ) .  which also brings up the question of why the treasure hunters had to slog through numerous underground caverns to get to the lost pyramid , when it's sitting right out in the middle of an open field ?  strictly speaking , " tarzan and the lost city " isn't even bad enough to have camp quality , although casper van dien's laughably stiff performance comes real close .  this movie proves what " starship troopers " only hinted at : he cannot act , but he sure looks well-groomed , even in the deepest heart of the african jungle .  van dien is much too much of a pretty-boy to be an effective tarzan ; he's a calvin klein model in a loin cloth .  i also wondered what the make-up department was thinking when it outfitted him with that awful circa-1983 steve perry haircut .  waddington makes a decent villain , although he's like a charmless version of belloq from " raiders of the lost ark . " as jane , the ex-model jane march has little to do but smile and look pretty next to tarzan .  she does fire off a gun at the evil treasure hunters a time or two , but whenever a snake comes into the picture , she is reduced to a hysterical mess .  however , amidst all this complaining , i do have one piece of good news .   " tarzan and the lost city " is so lacking in ideas both new and old , that it is unable to fill even an hour and a half of celluloid .  so , we can say this much for it : at least it had the decency to be short .  
everything in the phantom you have seen many times before and there is nothing new presented here .  wincer displays absolutely no skill in setting up an exciting action sequence .  billy zane is wooden as the hero .  kristy swanson is given very little to do , and does very little with it .  treat williams , looking like rhett butler but sounding like mickey mouse , is one of the worst villains i have ever seen in a movie .  only catherine zeta jones , as one of williams cohorts turns in a good performance .  she has energy and spunk , which the movie needed much more of .  oh yeah , the phantom also has a secret identity but this is so poorly played out you won't even care .  about the only things i can recommend are a good performance by jones , and some colorful scenery .  however , if youre looking for a fun family movie , go watch the underrated flipper .  this is not a good movie .  
a life less ordinary ( r ) while the extremely peculiar a life less ordinary does live up to its title , a more appropriate moniker would be a movie more misguided , for this confused , confusing attempt at romantic comedy is a most disarming disaster from the talented trainspotting team of director danny boyle , producer andrew macdonald , and screenwriter john hodge .  at the core of this strange film is a fairly basic--and , yes , ordinary--premise .  after robert ( boyle regular ewan mcgregor ) , an aspiring writer of trashy novels , is fired from his janitorial job at the naville corporation , he kidnaps naville's ( ian holm ) spoiled daughter celine ( cameron diaz ) and holds her for ransom .  the joke here is that celine is a willing victim--her father threatened to cut her off financially , so she wants revenge--and that she soon becomes not only an accomplice but the brains behind the scheme , teaching the inept robert a thing or two about kidnapping . . .  and , ultimately ( didn't we see this one coming ? ) ,  love .  so far , so mediocre .  but mediocre is better than dreadful , which this film is , thanks in no small part to the hodge's contextual frame for the romance .  it turns out that god is displeased with the divorce and romantic breakup rate on earth , so the chief of heaven's police , gabriel ( dan hedaya ) dispatches two angels , o'reilly ( holly hunter ) and jackson ( delroy lindo ) , to earth to hook up celine and robert--or lose their angel status .  this conceit might have worked if the angel dimension played an integral role in the entire picture .  but it could have easily been cut without any clear loss to the film ; as it stands , it is simply a waste of time that distracts from the romance at hand .  not that there is much of a romance to begin with .  try as diaz and mcgregor may , celine and robert are too one-note to become very endearing characters .  celine is rich bitch ; robert is a dullard .  as such , it is quite hard for the audience to really connect with these two--then again , they never seem to really connect with each other .  when celine and robert start to overtly act on their " feelings , " it comes off more like something scripted than anything natural .  but i am not exactly sure if boyle and company's point was romance ; honestly , i am not exactly sure what they were trying to accomplish .  boyle juices up the visuals with his characteristic razzmatazz , but it remains just that--energy , not energy in service of a story or even acting .  the cast seems lost , especially hunter , whose performance is so adrift as to be baffling .  and then there are the many eccentricities splattered onto the film : some violent confrontations involving the angels , who are not exactly angelic--in fact , they end up staging their own ransom scheme ; some mystical hokum in the climax ; and a cutesy claymation epilogue .  watching much of a life less ordinary is like being trapped in indie hipster hell , stockpiling quirks in the name of cool .  instead , the film just gives quirky a bad name .  my best guess as to what the filmmakers wanted to accomplish is an atmosphere of warped womantic ( yes , misspelling intended ) whimsy , which comes through in only one scene : an extended musical number where celine and robert sing " beyond the sea " at a karaoke bar .  after a verse or two , the couple are magically dolled up in snazzy outfits and hairdos , and engage in a spirited dance routine on the counter .  the scene works not only because of its relative simplicity but also because it does not try too hard , just relying on the innate charm of the leads , allowing them to build a romantic rapport .  alas , not nearly enough is built , for this moment comes to an abrupt end .  i applaud any attempt to bring something fresh and unique to movie houses , but sometimes even cleverness can reach overkill .  a life less ordinary certainly delivers something " different , " but by the time the film was over , i was clamoring for a life more ordinary .   " i can accept failure .  everyone fails at something .  but i can't accept not trying .  it doesn't matter if you win as long as you give everything in your heart . "  --michael jordan  
how could a g-rated disney film based on meg cabot's novel " the princess diaries " be anything but cute , harmless fun ?  easy .  take all the cute , harmless fun out of it .  and while you're at it make it borrr-ring .  that's what director garry marshall , screenwriter gina wendkos and , not to be outdone , producer whitney houston have done with the g-rated disney film " the princess diaries . "  you couldn't tell it from the audience though , a braintree , mass . of growing , glowing pre-pubescent girls ( and the odd parental , popcorn perched about their persons ) , who positively cheered when the end credits rolled ( ah the film had struck a lovely nerve with them but not with fuddy-duddy old me ) .  well , i might have cheered that the utter tripe was now well and truly over , but that would have been too obvious .  too obvious is the least of the problems with marshall's film ( garry made a couple of other " princess " movies-- " pretty woman " and " runaway bride " --but this one's way without julia roberts so maybe * that's * its problem ) .  in addition to being predictable as molasses , " the princess diaries " has hardly got a laugh in it ( it's a comedy ) , could bore the pants off an abyssinian for long , long stretches , and is so sloppily edited the principals refer to scenes we haven't even seen yet ( and probably never will except , perhaps , in the dvd edition ) .  marshall should take virtually all of the blame here , since he's been at this for some time and should know when a scene or two isn't working . . .  and hardly * any * of " the princess diaries " works ( " works , " alas , implies cleverness and there's none of that here either ) .  newcomer anne hathaway stars as mia thermopolis , a bright but socially invisible san franciscan teen who learns that her single mom ( a wacky artist played by the likable caroline goodall ) had a bit of a fling with some royal member of some miniscule european country nobody ever heard of ( the filmmakers go out of their way * not * to call it serbia , which is pretty much what all miniscule european countries are called in the movies mark my words ) and now she , mia , is next in line to rule " genovia " ( hence the headphones/tiara combo in the print ads ) .  julie andrews , with the luminous factor cranked to 11 , plays mia's grandmother ( aka queen clarisse renaldi ) , who shows up out of the royal blue and lends mia much advice and direction in the eating , talking , and looking like a princess department ( although mia's big makeover simply transforms her from ugly duckling to ugly swan ) .  does queen julie lose her dignity for the sake of a good laugh ?  not really .  consuming a corn dog is about the worst that it gets .  also on stereotypical hand are a brainless jock , an evil cheerleader , a dorky-looking best friend ( " welcome to the dollhouse " 's heather matarazzo ) , a sensitive auto mechanic/musician , and marshall mainstay hector elizondo as joe the driver , imparting wit and wisdom from the front seat of mia's chauffeur-driven limousine at every intersection .  a non-animated g-rated movie is a rarity these days but the rating here reflects the fact that all the guts , all the good stuff , has been exorcised from the finished product .  lame , labored , and lamentable , " the princess diaries " is recommended for eight-and-a-half year olds of the feminine persuasion * only * ; all others would do well to avoid it ( like potholes , the plague , and " the perfect storm " ) .  
the corruptor is a big silly mess of an action movie , complete with pointless plot turns and gratuitous violence .  it's not abhorrent , or even blatantly unlikable , but it doesn't make a shred of sense .  and whose idea was it to have the director of glengarry glen ross direct an action film ?  james foley knows a lot about characters and acting , and those are the strengths of the corruptor .  but the quiet scenes clash with the ludicrous action nonsense , and the result is less like a movie and more like a derailed train .  at least we have chow yun-fat in the lead role .  chow plays nick chen , a chinatown cop .  he's a good cop , as the first few scenes establish , and he's very familiar with chinatown .  that's probably why the powers-that-be decide to team him up with a rookie named danny wallace ( mark wahlberg ) .  nick and danny begin by stepping on each other's toes , but finally end up liking each other once they both get a chance to save the other one's life .  what happens after that is kind of a mystery to me .  i'm fairly certain that the villains are all part of the fukienese dragons , led by a young chinese psycho named bobby vu ( byron mann ) .  i'm also pretty sure that nick is on the payroll of henry lee ( ric young ) , a gangster dealing in prostitutes and other neat stuff .  i'm not quite sure why henry lee decides to employ danny , although this makes for some ridiculous ( albeit unpredictable ) plot twists along the way .  there's also an interesting subplot revolving around danny's father ( brian cox ) , but it doesn't have much to do with the main story .  one of the problems , as i said , is that the movie doesn't make any sense .  i don't blame this entirely on foley , because he's obviously a good director .  i'm more inclined to point my finger at robert pucci's script , which doesn't seem to be in tune to the way normal people act .  one scene early on had me particularly annoyed : nick confronts his boss because he's angry about his new white partner .  he's shouting and pointing his finger and stepping on the furniture , and i was thinking that i would have fired him if he had done that to me .   ( in addition , the film takes a bite into race-related issues , and never develops them at all . )  there are a lot of scenes like this one , and none of them are very coherent .  there's also a considerable language barrier , given that chow and some of the other actors have thick chinese accents .  the plot itself never straightens out .  i'm not sure who or what the fukienese dragons are , or why henry lee is associated with them , or what they do as a group .  the corruptor is an action movie , and so all these weird plot developments are decorated with loud and violent action sequences .  the sequences aren't bad , but they're not new ; how many car chases through chinatown have you seen ?  on that note , how many chinatown cop movies have you seen ?  one too many , i'd imagine .  foley's strength is clearly in characterization , and he does a pretty good job here .  the scenes between nick and danny are very good , and i actually got a feel for their characters ; a bond forms between them that holds parts of the film together .  chow and wahlberg are both good actors ; chow is a pro , and can do this kind of stuff in his sleep .  wahlberg seems less at home in this atmosphere , but he's still fun to watch .  i also liked the subplot involving danny's father ; brian cox's performance is powerful , and his character makes a compelling moral compass for danny .  but the film ultimately fails , mostly at the hands of insane incoherence and overly-familiar action scenes .  a complicated plot can be successful , but the story needs to make sense when it's over .  the corruptor never manages to make any sense -- it just keeps spinning out of control until , finally , there's nothing left to hold on to .  
 " return to horror high , " wants to be a couple different types of movies at once .  the film tells the story of a low-budget horror movie being filmed at the closed-down crippen high , a school where a group of serial murders took place five years before .  but what the cast and crew don't know is that a real killer , maybe the same one that was never apprehended , is going into action again .  on one level , " return to horror high " is a slasher movie , and it is at this level that it works the best on .  watching the film , which was made in 1987 , i couldn't help but take notice that the killer's costume was almost identital to that of the ghostface in , " scream , " and " scream 2 . "  on another level , the film wants to be a slapstick comedy , and there are many hints of this throughout .  unfortunately , most of these jokes fall flat .  and the last thing the film wants to be is a " behind-the-scenes " look at an exploitation film being made .  the only problem is that , while much of it is supposed to be from the movie itself being made , no cameras are shown filming it , thus making it far more confusing than it had to be .  and to top it all off , the " twist " ending makes very little to no sense whatsoever , and so we are basically left with feeling as if we wasted our time .  there are story developments that are beyond ludicrous , and plot holes you could drive a winnebago through .  if you see the film , or have seen it , you'll know what i mean .  the premise of " return to horror high , " is admittedly pretty crafty , and i liked the atmosphere of the school , which is where the whole thing takes place .  but director froehlich , judging from this movie , is an incompetent director , except for being able to film the seldom suspeneful scene .  well , come to think of it , there is only one scene that is actually scary , and it has to do with two actors being locked in a room as the killer tries to break in .  but other than that two-minute distraction , " return to horror high , " is certainly no great shake .  note : look for george clooney in a supporting role as one of the actors on the film .  and strangely enough , he is the first character to get the ax . . . literally .  
the art of woo attempts to be one of those films like breakfast at tiffany's in which the audience is rooting for some sweet , vulnerable , irresistible woman to work out her problems and to find happiness .  the problem is that helen lee who writes and directs seems to have written alessa woo ( played by sook-yin lee ) as neither sweet nor vulnerable and she is quite resistible .  alessa is a young woman who happens to be a brilliant art dealer in the toronto art scene .  this is some sort of alternate world art scene where people pay tens of thousands of dollars for paintings by talented beginners and dealers in these paintings fly back and forth to places like switzerland .  one of the most knowledgeable of the art dealers is alessa .  she also happens to be the center of adulation of her friends and every party has suitors camped outside her window .  next door to alessa moves struggling genius artist and native american ben crowchild ( adam beach ) .  he sees that behind the facade that there is really a sad little girl within alessa who really will not be happy with the rich art collector she is dating .  ben gets emotionally involved with alessa .   ( as alessa so delicately puts it , " we were bosom buddies , now we're fuck buddies . " )  but alessa will have to decide whether she wants love with ben or wealth with her rich suitor .  the real problem with the film seems to be helen lee's inability to decide what she wants to be saying .  she undercuts nearly everything she wants us to believe about alessa .  alessa is looking for financial security but she makes decisions about large sums of money for her clients .  this appears to be a high profile and well-paid job .  we are supposed to care about alessa's feelings , but she coldly refuses to visit her own ailing father .  alessa cannot be portrayed as sweet and vulnerable if at an art auction she turns into our man flint .  this is a charmless romantic comedy that bets everything it has on the appeal of its main character and comes up double-zero .  i rate it a 3 on the 0 to 10 scale and a -1 on the -4 to +4 scale .  
capsule : a science fiction allegory .  at the millennium a lethal contagious virus has hit taiwan .  officials have cut off water and other services to the center of contagion .  life there devolves and degenerates .  a man in an apartment has a hole in his floor and with it harasses his downstairs neighbor .  a slow but harrowing film to be missed if possible .   , low -1 ( -4 to +4 )  - the taiwan virus is ravaging taiwan and the part of the city that is the center of the contagion has been evacuated of anyone who will go .  one apartment building still houses people .  a woman , formerly an office worker , ( yang kuei-mei ) is tormented by her upstairs neighbor ( lee kang-sheng ) who has a hole cut by a plumber in the floor and is using it as a drain .  neighbor runs a small failing grocery store .  - to make things more depressing , it is constantly raining hard .  - upstairs neighbor vomits through , pours water , etc . a small and almost entirely one-sided war starts .  allegory about callousness and selfishness .  - woman is living on a pile of rolls of toilet tissue .  - incongruous songs added to show downstairs neighbors dreams .  these are the songs of popular taiwanese singer grace chang .  - apartment is falling apart .  wallpaper is separating from walls .  plumbing is failing .  - boredom shown by long cuts in which nothing happens .  a lot of film seems to be used up .  - this story might have been done much better as a ten-minute animated film .  - stars are considered to be great dramatic actors by one reviewer .  - this film seems longer at 95 minutes most two-hour films .  
seen december 2 , 1997 at 6 : 50 p . m . at the glenwood movieplex cinemas ( oneida , ny ) , theater #3 , by myself for free ( free pass ) .  [theater rating : * * * : good seats , sound , and picture]  there are many philosophies as to why we are so fascinated with cartoons .  they provide a method of total escapism in which anything will work within their context , from the outrageous slapstick of looney tunes to the intensity of japanimation .  watching " flubber " really clinched this idea for me , because it's just a live action cartoon that presents itself as a regular comedy .  it proves how painfully unfunny all those gags and slapstick would be in reality , and how important it is to actually have a story .  the film wastes no time in establishing its lighthearted , cartoony atmosphere .  we meet medfield college chemistry professor phillip brainard ( williams ) , the typical , supposedly likable mad scientist .  within the first 10 minutes we get at least a half dozen jokes about how forgetful he is .  phillip's memory loss seems less like a cartoony gag and more like a real case of alzhiemer's disease - isn't this rather lowbrow comedy ?  he starts teaching chemistry after walking in on a nude figure drawing class ( an inappropriate joke for a kids' movie if i ever saw one ) .  we learn he has stood his up fiancee , sara ( harden ) , twice at the altar simply because he's forgotten .  sara claims to love him , but says if he forgets the wedding again she'll stop loving him ( a sign of childish attitude the film denies it has ) .  but even cartoons must have conflicts to resolve , and it's no surprise the major conflicts here are related .  christopher mcdonald does and even worse version of his usual villain shtick as wilson croft , a scientist who not only wants to steal phillip's ideas , but his woman too .  what's worse is that sara actually seems interested in him !  wilson works for a rival college that wants to buy out medfield , which is going broke , unless phillip can invent something to save the day .  one of the first rules of filmmaking is to make sure the title has something to do with the film .  the flubber is played for gags after it is introduced , but is all but forgotten about thereafter .  it's obvious phillip is going to accidentally invent flubber , a flying rubber compound that yields tremendous energy , and the promotions make the flubber look realistic and funny .  unfortunately , the flubber , like all the special effects in this film , looks very fake and unconvincing .  flubber also seems to have intelligence and a personality , and by the time it performs a song and dance routine , you give up wondering how life could spontaneously come to an inanimate object .  most of the film wanders aimlessly as it relies on the flubber to make for the comedy ( since phillip's absent-mindedness is forgotten about ) and somehow push the story along .  but it's clear how weak this premise is from the get-go and the film just gets worse .  all the jokes involve people getting hit by fast-moving , flubber-powered objects including : bowling balls ; flying cars that don't fly well ; and a basketball team capable of jumping 100 feet into the air .  it's all presented with complete logic , and no one believes flubber exists even when they see it with their own eyes .  during the basketball scene , the coach for the rival team actually says , " i think they might be cheating , " to which the referee replies , " there's no rules about jumping too high . "   " predictable " doesn't begin to describe the motions the film goes through , especially after the halfway point .  and it's not how terribly contrived the plot is , it's the way it's broken down scene-by-scene , with absolutely no transition .  not only that , but all the actors here , especially williams , seem bored to tears .  i'd say 80 percent of all the scenes were shot with a bluescreen , so it's almost forgivable when you realize they're talking to nothing and interacting with nothing .  it's safe to say everything that could be bad about " flubber " is .  the only original element the film has is the world's first romance between a machine and a human .  but this aspect is quite twisted if you think about it , and , like the rest of the film , you won't .  
plot : a down-and-out girl moves in with some over-the-top models and falls in love with a goofy-but-loveable guy from across the street .  aaaaaaaaah !  then one day , she sees him knock a woman upside the head with a baseball bat .  ooooooooh !  she must then join together with her model-friends to find out whether or not this guy is really goofy-but-loveable , or a psycho killer .  aaaaaaaaah !  critique : completely idiotic .  okay , so maybe i'm being a little too nice .  this movie starts off dumb , moves into the ridiculous and eventually graduates to idiocy .  there . . . that's  more like it !  and how , you may ask ?  well , it's simple really .  four of the dumbest stereotypical models in the world ( oh my god , i just found out that the actresses playing the parts are models in real life . . . yipes ! )  join monica potter ( in a role which can only be described as an obvious cry for help ) and freddie prinze jr . ( not the actor , but the character better known as freddie prinze jr . ) , in a plot so stupid and far-fetched , that you have to wonder once more , how crap like this gets by the hollywood bigwigs .  this thing stinks to high-heaven .  it's just plain embarrassing for everyone involved .  i even felt my iq dip below its usual low as toilet humor somehow worked its way into this so-called romantic-comedy-action movie ?  ugh .  what a pile of dung .  hey , i'm actually starting to sound a little like harry knowles here , but i guess i could see where his frustration comes from time to time .  it's sad really .  a movie which actually had quite a few people in my audience laughing at its idiocy , including the over-used " folks hiding in the bathroom while someone else comes in to take a crap and fart " gag .  and how about that dumb blonde model who keeps running into things .  pure hilarity !  or maybe i'm just too jaded , too much of a critic , not relaxed enough to enjoy this fluff-piece . . . uuuhhmmm . . . naaaaah ! !  this movie sucks the big one .  it's chockfull of stupid characters delivering inane dialogue fitting snuggly into a preposterous plot .  this is the kind of movie that has one character inserting another character into a car headfirst to the floor only because . . . well ,  it's supposed to be funny , see ?  you see , that person then has their legs swinging in the other person's face as they drive and that distracts the driver , see , and well , that's kinda funny , no ?  harumph . . . yeah ,  well . . . you  get the picture !  anyhoo , freddie prinze jr . . . . nuff  said .  monica potter , a bad career move , but we might forgive you if you keep up the julia roberts bit .  the rest of the model girls . . . well ,  thanks for being there so i had something to look at , but please apologize to the entire modeling community as a whole , for making them all out to be complete imbeciles ! !  so why the three points out of ten , you may ask ?  well , it's simple really .  one point goes to the russian model girl and that cool accent ( don't ask me why , but it actually turned me on ) .  one point goes out to all of the model girls for being in the movie ( nice window decoration . . . natch ! ) .  and one last point goes out to the makers of this film , who spared us any long sorted story , and made sure to give us the opportunity of leaving the theatre after only 90 minutes of manufactured garbage , so that we could run out as fast as we can , grab the next person that we see walking down the street and warn them of the devil that is . . . freddie prinze jr . . . i  mean , head over heels .  you've been warned , good people .  ps : didja notice how i didn't even mention rear window once in my entire review ?  i didn't want to taint the memory of the classic flick by having it uttered alongside this thing , but then again , i just did mention it , but i guess it doesn't count in the ps section . . . or  does it ?  ooooh , whatever . . . i have a headache !   ( i think my brain is coming back to life )  where's joblo coming from ?  10 things i hate about you ( 7/10 ) - coyote ugly ( 6 . 5/10 )  - down to you ( 6 . 5/10 )  - save the last dance ( 7/10 ) - she's all that ( 6 . 5/10 )  - the wedding planner ( 4/10 ) - you've got mail ( 5 . 5/10 )  
for those interested in the true spirit of moviemaking - or what's left of it in mainstream hollywood - movie which are star vehicles are terrible things .  as a rule , the ignore general principles of cinema because they are not made to advance the media but rather to advance the career of a particular actor .  an actor might be chosen on the up-and-up , to give him exposure ; or he might be chosen on the way down to hand him a paycheck .  generally , though , the actor doesn't matter , and soldier , the latest from the beleaguered warner brothers , exemplifies this : the picture lacks pizazz .  the star for the vehicle in this case is kurt russell , otherwise known as the man of thirty words or less .  russell plays todd , a human trained from birth in the ways of waging war and becoming emotionally distanced from the carnage he has wrought .  the movie lets us see this degenerate process , but by the time the real plot starts , we're into todd's later years .  he's about to be replaced by a new breed of soldiers , ones who , instead of being trained * from * birth , are genetically selected * before * birth .  the pride of this class - caine 607 ( jason scott lee ) - will be our villain , and you know he's the villain because he has a staring contest with our hero near the movie's start .  between the two leads , less than a full typed page of dialogue is spoken , and it's possible to imagine a script which is ninety percent stage direction .  director paul anderson , who helmed last year's icy thriller , event horizon , doesn't show any inventiveness here and instead is content to let the actions play out on screen ad nauseam .  todd , upon being replaced , is left to die on a garbage planet ; but in order to stretch the running time out , the villains return to the garbage planet on a " routine patrol " and set the stage for the final firefight .  events are predictable from the time that the setups are made , and neither anderson nor scriptwriter david peoples attempts to show any creativeness here .  the most annoying plot facet is the reason that the whole of the movie comes to be : todd fails to show physical superiority against caine - in fact , not even todd and two of his companions can best the baddie - but near the end of the movie he shows remarkable prowess with automatic weaponry .  it's not as though todd undergoes any significant character changes throughout the plot of the story , and so the plot has a very canned feeling about it .  the best route through this disaster is to take it lighthearted in spirit , and treat it as a parody of typical action fare , like universal soldier .  a strict interpretation , however , reveals an unmistakeable and unforgiveable lack of style , class , or substance ; and by next year , a large percentage of the people who have seen this will have taped it off of network television .  
director doug ellin's kissing a fool , released earlier this year , is an aptly titled comedy about two plastic couples housed in an artificial story .  like a sitcom with jokes so lame that it would be impossible to overlay a laugh track on it , the movie meanders along insulting the viewers' intelligence in almost every frame .  the script by james frey and the director is filled with vapid actors who read meaningless lines you've heard before .   ( " i'm not wearing any underwear , " the bimbo tells the famous sportscaster , max , in what she assumes will be a sure-fire come-on line . )  max , chicago's biggest playboy , decides to get married after a whirlwind love affair with sam , short for samantha .  max and sam possess two irritating personalities , and they hold little chemistry for each other or the audience .  max is played without any style by david schwimmer .  schwimmer , whose acting talent is playing characters devoid of personality , makes an unlikely lover .  his costar , mili avital as sam , is cut from the same cloth , so they can be argued to be a matched pair .  after all , people of the same intelligence are naturally drawn to each other , ditto for similar looks , so why shouldn't the personality-challenged be attracted ?  the implausible plot has max asking his best friend , jay ( jason lee ) , to hit on sam as a test .  jay is supposed to try to get her to sleep with him , but stop short of the actual act .  max , being promiscuous by nature , worries that his future bride may have the same need to sleep around as he does .  the idea of flirting with the beautiful sam makes jay so sick that he becomes unable to eat or work .  neither the script nor the actors make this test believable .   " the 64 , 000 question is : how do you know you're with the wrong person so you can avoid wreaking havoc on major parts of your life ? "  jay asks in one of the unsuccessful attempts at adding some seriousness to the film .  finally , there is the film's attempt at physical comedy .  jay's ex-girlfriend natasha ( vanessa angel ) becomes infatuated with jay again once she thinks he is going out with someone else .  natasha rips jay's shirt open after pushing him down onto the sofa .  as she throws her hair on his bare chest , she demands he pull it .  this is supposed to be funny ?  most films have some saving grace .  some bit part was done especially well or some scene managed to be funny even if the rest of the picture wasn't .  kissing a fool , on the other hand , has nothing to recommend it .  kissing a fool runs 1 : 45 .  it is rated r for profanity and sexuality and would be acceptable for most teenagers .  
i am continually amazed at movies like this .  that some producer would waste an abundance of talent and money on a script as abysmal as this one is mind-boggeling , but it seems to happen a lot nowadays .   " wild wild west " is a beautifully filmed , well acted , and well directed piece of garbage ; and its insipid screenplay is completely at fault .  in short , this movie is a comedy without laughs .  so many jokes fall flat that it borderlines surreal .  the high production values keep it from being a total fiasco , but it's still pretty boring .  will smith stars as jim west , an old western , r&b variation of the james bond character .  west is teamed up with artemus gordon ( kevin kline ) , and they're pretty much polar oppisites : west prefers to solve his problems with an array of bullets , gordon traditionally favors a more pacifistic approach .  talk about deeply developed characters .  at any rate , this leads to the inevitable conflicts between methodologies , none of which are funny .  the year is 1869 .  several top scientists have been abducted , and the suspected culprit is a disgruntled former confederate general , bloodbath mcgrath ( ted levine ) .  president grant sends west and gordon to investigate .  there's evidence that mcgrath is attending some sort of confederate reunion in louisiana .  west and gordon show up and learn that mcgrath is actually working for dr . arliss loveless ( kenneth branagh ) , another disgruntled former confederate .  as it turns out , loveless plans to use the combined knowledge of the scientests to create the ultimate super weapon , which he will use to conquer the united states .  i'd go further with the plot , but there isn't any point .  this film's narrative is little more than a jumbled , unfunny mess .  i only laughed at a couple of jokes , and then only lightly .  there isn't one truly uprorously funny moment in this film , and that's pretty disasterous when you consider that it's primarily a comedy .  as i said , the fault is totally that of the script .  when you consider their respective roles , will smith and kevil kline do as good as they could have possibly done .  the leads could've been played samuel l . jackson and robert de niro and the film still would've been awful .  no one , and i mean no one , can make a line like " bye bye , mr . knife guy ! "  sound good .  still , this film has a lot going for it visually .  the set design is fantastic , maybe even oscar worthy .  the cinematogrophy by michael ballhaus ( who was also behind camera in martin scorsese's brilliant " goodfellas " ) , is absolutely stunning .  he lends the film a much needed exciting , comic bookish look .  i won't fault barry sonnenfeld either .  he does a fine job of directing the proceedings , but , like the rest of the people involved with the film , there really isn't anything that he can do to correct its one major flaw .  despite being beautifully made , " wild wild west " becomes quite boring after the half-way point .  the appeal of the visuals ends long before the film does .  if " wild wild west " didn't look so good , it would be almost insufferable .  as it is , it's somewhat tolerable , but not very entertaining .  it hurts to give such a well made movie a score this low , but there isn't anything much worse than an unfunny comedy .  
this talky , terribly-plotted thriller stars alec baldwin as dave robicheaux , an ex-new orleans cop who gets ensnared in a murder- mystery after a light-plane crashes into the bayou beside his fishing boat .  he and his wife annie ( kelly lynch ) rescue a little salvadorian girl ( samantha lagpacan ) from the wreckage and that's when the trouble begins .  the other major players include a local drug lord ( eric roberts ) , his scheming wife ( teri hatcher ) , a soused stripper ( mary stuart masterson ) , and a shady dea agent ( vondie curtis hall ) .  everyone knows everyone else and it makes for a collective that's curious but never compelling .  based on the book by james lee burke , heaven's prisoners is so badly plotted that entire * scenes * seem to be missing .  early on , we have no idea of why dave and annie keep the child to themselves .  nor how they eluded both the coast guard and the faa .  later , dave is reunited with a drug-abuser who appears seemingly clean and sober and without any explanation .  huh ?  the whole movie is like this , perhaps the result of some unkind cuts that happened during the eighteen months that the film sat on the shelf .  whatever the reason , somebody should tell director phil joanou ( final analysis ) to recut this mess .  in its present form , heaven's prisoners runs only two hours plus change , but it feels like four .  
spoiled rich kid kelley morse ( chris klein ) receives a new mercedes for a graduation present .  he and his buddies take it for a joyride to a small nearby town , where he proceeds to torment the locals simply because he's rich and they're not .  he ends up provoking jasper ( josh hartnett ) into a race and as a result , the local gas station and diner are destroyed when they crash into it .  kelley is sentenced to rebuild the diner , and has to live with jasper in a spare room over his family's barn .  jasper's girlfriend sam ( leelee sobieski ) soon takes a liking to kelley however , despite the fact that 1 ) it was her family's diner that was destroyed and b ) all kelley does is sit around , sulk , and smart off to the townspeople .  but when she sees him sweaty and shirtless , that's apparently all she needs to lose her feelings for jasper ( whose only fault seems to be a perpetual case of hat hair ) .  so sobieski soon falls in love with kelley , especially after the day she follows him through the woods and hears him giving his graduation speech ( which he was unable to deliver because he caused the destruction of property and nearly killed dozens of people ) .  in the speech , kelley quotes a poem by robert frost , which just so happens to be sam's favorite poem as well .  awwwww .  soon they're frolicking around in the fields and for some reason waste no time letting people in town ( especially jasper's best friend ) see them together .  kelley continues to make an ass of himself in town , especially when he shows up at the town dance , drunk and steaming because sam went with jasper .  kelley runs off and decides to leave town .  sam catches up to him at the bus station and he asks her to come to boston with him .  jasper shows up and tearfully confesses to sam just how much he loves her , and sam , without even breaking stride basically says " see ya ! "  and takes off to boston with kelley .  here on earth goes in so many wrong directions from the start that by the time its fairly decent ending comes around , its completely worthless .  chris klein and leelee sobieski are two of my current favorite young performers , and it's because of their presence that i watched this film in the first place .  however , not long into the proceedings i wanted to just reach into the film and strangle them both .  i shouldn't have such feelings towards people i like , but their characters are so infuriating that . . .  well trust me , you'll feel the same way .  even though both of the lead male characters are usually in the wrong , kelley is hands down the more unlikable of the two , simply because his jerkish actions are calculated .  he intends to be a jackass each and every time he does it .  jasper on the other hand , only reacts to kelley's provocations , and afterwards comes across as being truly sorry for his impulsive actions .  but , as in life , nice guys finish last .  for the entire film we watch sam fall in love with the guy no one likes while the film's only sympathetic character gets completely crushed .  then , a cancer subplot comes into play ( where things get even more infuriating , if you can imagine that ) .  what , things weren't depressing enough for you mr . screenwriter ?  who greenlit this project ?  who " on earth " thought this would entertain anyone ?  perhaps if the film had been structured where kelley perhaps felt some remorse after he caused the destruction of property and nearly killed dozens of people .  but even after he's destroyed these people's lives he continues to be a snob to them , and ruins one more for good measure .  here on earth is available on dvd from fox home entertainment .  it contains the film in its original theatrical aspect ratio of 1 . 85 : 1 and is enhanced for 16x9 televisions .  extras include jessica simpson's music video for " where you are " , a commercial for the film's soundtrack ( which by the way is the only good thing about the film ) , the original theatrical trailer and five tv spots , trailers for other fox releases ( anna and the king , anywhere but here , the beach , drive me crazy , ever after , romeo + juliet , simply irresistible ) , as well as that new fox promo touting their upcoming dvd releases that i really enjoy .  the picture and sound quality on the disc are fine . . .  nothing that will challenge anyone's audio/video systems of course .  fans of this movie ( if any exist ) should enjoy the dvd release .  here on earth is not entertaining nor is it compelling .  no joy or entertainment value can be derived from any of the events of the film .  it is merely a waste of time , money and talent .  
some movies' pre-release buzz is so insistent on their high oscar potential that when they're finally released , everyone just goes along with it .  thus sometimes , films unworthy of any award sans the razzie become oscar hopefuls and some even score nominations .  last year it was the thin red line .  this year's " winner " is the hurricane , pure unadulterated tripe that is all of a sudden being received with critical plaudits and votes in the office oscar pool .  acclaimed director norman jewison's biopic retreads all the conventions of courtroom movies without any of the fun .  and that's supposed to be ok because , see , it's a true story .  it's about rubin " hurricane " carter ( denzel washington ) , a legendary african american prizefighted who is unjustly convicted of triple homicide with the help of a ghastly ( racist ! )  detective ( dan hedaya ) who's had it in for the " big-shot " hurricane ever since he arrested him for stabbing a white man with a knife ( in self-defense but who cares , right ? )  when rubin was only ten .  he is to serve three life sentences with no possibility of parole .  most of the film takes place when he is in his 15th year in prison .  to the rescue -- lesra martin ( vicellous reon shannon ) and his team of wanna-be detectives .  lesra is an african american teenager taken in by three well-off canadian white people ( hanna , unger , schreiber ) to get an education .  lesra and his buddies go to a book sale where lesra picks out his very first book -- " the sixteenth round , " rubin's autobiography .  immediately thereafter , schreiber's character tells lesra " sometimes we don't pick the books we read , they pick us . "  hmmm .  after a few visits to the prison , they become convinced of rubin's innocence and launch their own full-scale investigation even though two juries have convicted him .  they meticulously go through all the files and revisit all the old witnesses ( i wonder if any of them might be cranky old women who slam the door in their faces ? ) and in the course of their relentlessy tedious sleuthing uncover obvious evidence confirming the hurricane's innocence that was either ignored or never seeked out during the first two proceedings .  of course , we're already told that he's innocent .  a movie like this is especially frustrating because we're not being shown everything significant that happened to carter during this period in his life .  all too obviously , we're getting the hollywood watered- down version .  that would be ok except that the parts we are getting is milked for every single drop of melodrama that the filmmakers could possibly squeeze out of it .  it's almost cruel .  the melodrama isn't of the entertaining kind either ; it's the hokey , rammed-down-your-throat variety where every emotion is exaggerated to the point of absurdity .  witness the villain ferociously grinding his teeth at the final trial or the constant pseudo-saintliness of our four protagonists .  the hurricane is your basic courtroom movie except it's a no-frills courtroom movie .  it's formula stripped to the bare necessities .  you have your wrongly accused black man .  you have your melodramatic final courtroom scene .  but there's nothing else .  you'd expect some sort of involving investigation .  but that's not necessary since we're implicitly informed of his innocence .  thus the whole middle portion of the movie is reduced to the protagonist brooding .  brooding to himself .  brooding to other inmates .  brooding to lesra .  brooding to lesra's canadian friends .  brooding in letters .  i don't think i'll ever look at brooding the same way again .  it wasn't long before i got tired of hearing the hurricane's exceedingly deep meditations on his condition .  i wanted something to happen .  as for washington's performance in the title role -- i figured i'd have to address it sooner or later considering the amount of attention it's received -- he is top notch , though still boring .  how is that possible ?  well , he does what jewison wanted him to do perfectly .  unfortunately what jewison asked him to do is a load of crap .  what a waste of a great performer .  speaking of wastes , why the hell did john hannah agree to do this ?  he's an extremely talented actor and i love him dearly , but what is he doing here ?  to call his character ( along with schreiber's and unger's ) a stick figure would be a gross understatement .  all three of them come off as veritable mother theresas , as benevolent as do-gooders come .  if they're to play a major part in this movie , why not make them real people , with real feelings and emotions ?  look : if you're going to make a formula movie , don't undermine the formula .  courtroom dramas can be fun , but this is ridiculous .  not only is it trite , it's boring .  
all feature film directors who cut their teeth on music videos , please raise your hands .  thank you for identifying yourselves ; now would you all please go away .  your influence has to rank as one of the most annoying trends in filmmaking in the last decade , and it shows no sign of abating any time soon .  it isn't just the strobe light quality of your twenty-cuts-per-minute editing , or the numbing over-use of popular music artists on the soundtracks which makes me suspicious of any film advertised " featuring the music of . . . " no , it is a kind of cynicism you have perfected , banking on the idea that no one will care about the lack of a story if you include enough bells and whistles .  welcome to the club , scott kalvert .  your adaptation of the basketball diaries is loud and one-dimensional , serving only as the vehicle for a performance by leonardo dicaprio that is better in pieces than it is as a whole .  dicaprio stars as jim carroll , the new york poet/songwriter/ performer on whose autobiographical writings the film is based .  as the film opens , jim is a budding high school basketball star given to petty thievery and getting drunk with buddies mickey ( mark wahlberg ) , pedro ( james madio ) and neutron ( patrick mcgaw ) .  one night , jim graduates from inhalants to cocaine , and shortly thereafter to heroin .  jim's addiction to the drug starts him on a downhill spiral , as he is kicked off the basketball team by his coach ( bruno kirby ) , kicked out of his home by his mother ( lorraine bracco ) , and drops out of school .  along with mickey and pedro , jim becomes a victim of the street , living from fix to fix and sinking lower and lower .  the basketball diaries has been bouncing around as a project for years , but the sticking point has always been that jim carroll as a character was too unsympathetic and too much a loner .  screenwriter bryan goluboff created the three characters who act as carroll's posse , resulting in a jim carroll who is just as unsympathetic , but now with equally unsympathetic friends .  as a film , the basketball diaries may be intended primarily as a cautionary tale , a 100 minute long " just say no " public service announcement , but as drama it is monumentally ineffective because it is impossible to care much about anyone in the movie .  jim is sort of a jerk even before he becomes a junkie , but i suppose that his pseudo-sensitive poetry and his devotion to his terminally ill friend are intended to balance that out .  perhaps we are expected to see jim as one of those " good kids who falls in with the wrong crowd " that every parent believes his or her troubled child to be ; i saw him simply as part of the bad crowd .  without a character who changes in any appreciable way , the basketball diaries rapidly degenerates into a collection of crimes committed by jim and his strung-out cohorts , all choreographed to an oppressively loud soundtrack .  director scott kalvert doesn't have many scenes with intrinsic dramatic impact with which to work , so he substitutes silly slow-motion photography , self-consciously funky camera angles and choppy editing .  on only one occasion , when a steady pan around a room where jim is trying to detox makes it appear that the walls are closing in , are any of the gimmicks effective .  mostly , they just draw attention to how hollow the story is .  they also don't allow leonardo dicaprio's performance to be as strong as it could have been .  for every impressive moment , like his desperate attempt to get his mother to give him money , there is a scene where kalvert pulls too much of the focus to his own camera theatrics .  dicaprio is most effective when he is playing off other actors , particularly a fine sequence featuring ernie hudson as an ex-junkie who tries to help jim straighten out , but kalvert won't let character interaction define this story .  he wants to turn dicaprio into a rock star , shooting him in dramatic fashion but denying him the opportunity to do much acting .  at isolate moments , the basketball diaries is a fine showcase for dicaprio's talents .  far more frequently , it looks like kalvert is trying to imagine what a long form velvet underground video might have looked like .  
depending on your degree of cinematic acumen , last man standing is either a ) a prohibition-era remake of akira kurosawa's 1961 classic yojimbo ; b ) a prohibition-era remake of sergio leone's 1964 classic a fistful of dollars ; c ) a prohibition-era action drama with a completely original story-line .  new line is certainly counting on the fact that there are far more potential viewers in category ( c ) than in the other two combined , much as the recent remakes of diabolique and the vanishing counted on avoiding such comparisons .  the fact is that there is yet another way of looking at last man standing , which is as the first film version of the story which nods to the _real_ source material , the dashiell hammett novel _red harvest_ .  it also shows that kurosawa and leone knew better what to do with that material than hammett himself .  this time around , the man with no name is played by bruce willis , a fellow with a shady history of an undefined nature who rolls into the texas border town of jericho one day on his way to mexico .  by all appearances , jericho is well on its way to becoming a ghost town , with the few remaining inhabitants generally belonging to one of two bootlegging operations fighting for control of liquor coming over the border .  one is headed by an irishman named doyle ( david patrick kelly ) ; the other is run by chicago-connected italian mobster strozzi ( ned eisenberg ) .  calling himself john smith , the man decides that there is money to be made from the conflict , and hires himself out as an enforcer to doyle's side .  but smith's allegiance is as uncertain as his name , and he begins to play the two sides against each other while trying to stay one step ahead of both of them .  viewers familiar with both previous incarnations of this story will find virtually nothing radically changed from a plotting standpoint , and that alone should make last man standing somewhat more respectable than other recent hollywood remakes-cum-bastardizations .  there is the happily ineffectual lawman ( bruce dern ) , the unhappily detained object of one of the bosses' affections ( karina lombard ) , the barkeep who becomes our anti-hero's only friend ( william sanderson ) , suspicious lieutenants ( christopher walken and michael imperioli ) to question the bosses' trust in smith , a brutal beating , and a big fire .  director walter hill gives the proceedings his usual injection of steroids , including a pair of guns for willis which have the ability to propel an assailant backward with sufficient thrust to achieve escape velocity , but at least he doesn't try to turn the story into a slasher film or a buddy picture .  what he _does_ do is nearly as big a mistake , and that is to provide a running voice-over narration by willis which rings of the standard hard-boiled style of pulp detective fiction .  yes , that narration is full of cliches , but those are are not particularly troubling .  the problem is that both yojimbo and a fistful of dollars succeeded largely on the inscrutability of their lead characters .  they were a mystery , to the other characters in the film and to the audience , their motives never entirely clear even after they have acted , and that quality contributed to their almost mythical status .  with john smith's voice chattering on in the background and allowing us into his every thought , he becomes more mundane , just another tough guy trying to stay alive .  it feels like a hammett novel , all right , and hill can plead faithfulness to his text for his choice , but it simply doesn't work .  the narration allows the man with no name to take us into his confidence , and the man with no name takes _no one_ into his confidence .  even if you walk into last man standing as a blank slate , i can't imagine it being much more than a heavily armed minor distraction .  willis tones down his macho swagger as the taciturn smith , but there is still a level on which he always seems like he is counting on being tougher than everyone else rather than smarter than everyone else .  christopher walken plays doyle's brutal henchman as a slight variation on his gallery of soft-spoken psychos , and there isn't another single character whom makes even the slightest impression .  with no compelling antagonist for smith , there is no build-up towards the expected showdown , and when it does come , that showdown is over so quickly you wonder what all the fuss was about .  cinematographer lloyd ahern ( who also did the only noteworthy work on hill's 1995 flop wild bill ) creates some nifty sunburned vistas , but his work is only to keep the eye distracted between the spurts of gunfire and the next bit of counter-productive narration .  sometimes when someone sees a lackluster remake of a revered original , they'll wonder what all the talk was about .  in the case of last man standing , it is those who know the originals who will wonder what all that talking was about .  
okay , bear with me y'all , cause first off i have to get this off my chest :  what the hell is up with that damn crab ? ? ?  whew . okay .  cause that same clip shown over and over again was beginning to get on my nerves towards the end , as cute as the crab maybe .  even i know that you need more footage than * that * .  and that wasn't the only thing getting on my nerves .  the cutesy gimmicks , saccharine sweet score / soundtrack and the pretty young faces of sarah michelle gellar ( as amanda ) and sean patrick flannery ( as tom ) might have held some appeal during , oh , say the first 10 minutes of the movie .  at first the movie moves along at a quick , interesting pace .  it is speedily established that something magical is about to happen to amanda when she encounters a totally random fairy godfather type person on the street , whose aforementioned crab follows her everywhere and just * doesn't * die .  a ridiculous concept , yes , but at this point i'm willing to accept it because i'm willing to accept that this is how amanda's life is changed , how her powers are received .  later on , the movie can't seem to decide whether these powers come from this fairy godfather or from amanda falling in with tom .  and this is why the clips of the crab were annoying ; they weren't just repetitive , they were out of place and unnecessary .  the plot stumbles along at an uneven speed , sometimes dwelling too long on a particular development ( amanda suddenly becoming a great chef , her falling in love with tom , etc . ) , sometimes moving on too quickly for its own good .  some places the plot just doesn't make sense , sometimes it's way too contrived ( the crab bit , for example ) , and sometimes too corny ( peaches emitting dry ice .  can't beat that ) .  all in all the plot seemed fragmented , unconnected .  not romantic at all , and only funny in some places .  so , okay , do the magic powers come from the crab ?  or the fairy godfather ?  she can * float * now too ?  and all of a sudden , instead of just making dry ice come out of peaches , she can put her emotions into her food ?  tom all of a sudden just accepts amanda's " witchcraft " in the end ?  would people really dine in a restaurant that resembles life after death in tupac's video ?  what the hell is up with that damn crab ?  it is unfortunate , because i liked the basic premise of the movie , until it became too fantastical and tiresome .  the film seemed to skirt around a serious theme or at least * a * theme for a while , but towards the end it resolved to show us long flashback clips and 5 minutes of people crying at their tables .  the humor was good in some places ( nolan gets the funniest bits , including that incomprehensible , totally random thing with the dolls ) .  gellar and flannery are qualified actors , and gellar has a particular charm , but i much prefer her playing the saucy buffy ( or even annette in the upcoming " cruel intentions " ) than this sorry excuse for a character .  it's almost funny sometimes to see these two trying so hard to make the dialogue sound better than it is , or trying to make the relationship seem more plausible .  the supporting character nolan was a highlight , though he reminded me a bit of kevin in " you've got mail " ( see footnotes ) .  and , as always , typical of a chick flick / romantic comedy , there's a seemingly endless romantic soundtrack in the background , cued up at all the right places .  this sort of got on the nerves after a while , too .   " simply irresistible " is not hard to understand , light , funny in some places , and generally disappointing because it can't draw the line between romance and protracted sap , between humor and tired slapstick .  and how could i refrain from making a pun ?   .   .   .   " simply irresistible " is all too easy to resist .   ( first viewing , 2/6/99 )   * did anyone else think this was a tad bit similar to " you've got mail " ( or " the shop around the corner " ) ?  business rivals fall in love .  female counterpart's business is in danger of being shut down .  female as mother- like figure guiding her .  the annoying , hysterical ex-girlfriends .   * i _really_ like sarah michelle gellar's wardrobe .  
i went to blair witch project 2 : book of shadows with the highest of hopes .  the original film , released last summer , was genuinely scary and terrifying ; i hoped that this movie would live up to its predecessor .  unfortunately , my hopes were soon dashed .  as the movie opens , the audience is shown pseudo-documentary clips of burkittsville , maryland residents being interviewed about the sudden tourist influx to their town as a result of the original blair witch project movie .  it's a mostly humorous , self-aware poke at the media hype and hysteria surrounding the first film .  during this segment , we are introduced to the protagonist , a young man who sells blair witch-related memorabilia from his website .  the movie then cuts to a title that informs us that what we are about to see occurred one year previously .  we see the same young man that was selling blair witch paraphernalia , but now he is confined in a mental institution the sort of which one only finds in bad horror movies .  we see him having some sort of disgusting white goo unconvincingly forced down his nose while a cigarette-smoking doctor luridly leers above him .  we see him throwing himself wildly around a padded room ; we see him cowering naked in a shower stall as a fire hose is turned on him .  no explanation is provided for why he is in the mental institution ; in fact , these scenes are barely referred to again .  i had a sinking feeling during these opening scenes ; generally , a hospital scene that is set with poor lighting , filthy interiors , and evil doctors is a sure sign that you are in the throes of a truly horrible movie .  the movie cuts again , this time to the present .  the young man , whose name is jeffrey ( played by jeffrey donovan -- as in the first movie , the character names are identical to the actors' names , although this movie admits up front that it is fictional , so there's no reason for the practice this time around ) , is rounding up a group of people that he will be leading into the woods that weekend for the " blair witch hunt , " which is a promotional gimmick he came up with and sells on his website .  we meet tristen and steven , a young couple who are writing a book about the blair witch experience .  steven is a skeptic , believing the whole thing to be the result of mass hysteria .  tristen , on the other hand , believes that there may be some truth to the rumors of supernatural occurrence .  she is wan and soft-spoken ; she complains that the radio is playing too loudly .   ( she also complains that she feels nauseated ; i knew immediately that the character was pregnant , and my intuition was confirmed a few scenes later when kim psychomagically susses it out .  how did i know ?  because in bad movies , nauseated women are always pregnant . )  the fourth member of their party is erica , a wiccan with flowing hair and wide eyes who wants to prove that the blair witch was a good witch , not evil .  they pick up the fifth and final team member in a cemetery .  kim is dressed completely in black , has extreme goth-style makeup on , and occasionally displays seemingly psychic abilities , but otherwise seems to be the most intelligent and reasonable person out of the entire bunch .  presumably she wanted to be picked up in the cemetery just for dramatic effect ; it's never explained .  the party of five heads off into the woods as promised .  they reach the crumbling ruins of the foundation of rustin parr's house and set up camp , complete with extensive video equipment with which to record the night's events .  there is a brief encounter with a rival blair witch tour group who had planned to camp at that site as well , but after a few words are exchanged , the rival group huffs off and makes camp elsewhere .  the movie veers off at this point to spend many long , long minutes showing the drinking party that ensues after the sun goes down .  sexual innuendoes are tossed around , much hard liquor , beer , and pot is consumed , and nothing much else happens .  this would be a great point to get up and go to the bathroom if necessary .  the next day , the team wakes up and discovers that their camera equipment has been completely trashed , and that steven and tristen's manuscript paper is fluttering down from the sky in shreds , like snow .  the videotapes are missing , but thanks to a psychic intuition from kim , they discover the videotapes buried underneath the foundation of the house , " right where the original blair witch tapes were found ! "  ooh .  spooky .  the team goes back to jeffrey's house -- a creepy old civil war-era warehouse in the heart of the woods -- to regroup and review the tapes .  they soon discover that the tapes mysteriously skip five hours of the night .  wacky hijinks ensue .  tristen starts having weird dreams in which she is the blair witch , everybody starts finding these weird rune-like burn marks on their bodies , steven and erica have some highly disturbing mutual hallucinations , and everything pretty much goes to hell in a handbasket .  throughout the entire ordeal , jeffrey and the others continue to scrutinize the videotapes , which seem to have some kind of weird images on them at about the point that the time jumps ; eventually tristen wanders in , mutters something about " reverse , " and from this they somehow realize that they have to play the tapes backwards .  when they do this , they discover what really happened during the five lost hours .   ( one of the things they see on the videotape is footage of themselves burying the videotapes .  okay , if the videotapes were being buried , then how were they recording themselves . . . oh ,  nevermind . )  this movie was awful .  simply awful .  the characters are broadly-drawn caricatures that are never allowed any depth or development .  erica is the nature-loving wiccan .  tristen is the weak and sympathetic woman .  steven is the overbearing asshole .  kim is the antisocial goth girl .  old , tired cliches were used to illustrate these caricatures .  how do we know tristen is weak and sympathetic ?  because she's pregnant !  how do we know kim is an antisocial goth girl ?  because she wears a lot of eye makeup !  how do we know the local sheriff is a bad guy ?  because he has jagged teeth and talks like he's straight out of " deliverance " !  this is weak storytelling at its worst .  rather than taking the time to flesh out the characters and make them truly sympathetic , the writer chose to give each one a few stereotypical characteristics , in an attempt to use some cinematic shorthand and thereby skip straight to the action .  it didn't work .  on top of being poorly developed , most of the characters were either seriously unlikable or patently stupid .   ( " honey , you just had a miscarriage out in the woods and got medical attention at a hospital that looks like it belongs in a bad slasher movie .  let's get on a plane home . "   " no .  i am having these bizarre nightmares and seeing strange visions and i want to find out what's going on . "   " ok . " )  frankly , by the end of the movie , i was rooting for the witch .  i also felt that there was simply too much blood 'n' gore in this film .  the first movie worked by never showing us the horror .  the witch was a palpable presence in that movie , but we never saw it ; we never saw anything , in fact .  the horror was all off-screen , and thus our imaginations worked overtime to envision what it might possibly be .  this is the hallmark of a truly creepy and disturbing horror movie .  blair witch 2 dispensed with such niceties and went straight for the gross-out .  this was evident from the opening scenes of the mad doctors forcing white goo down jeffrey's throat , and continued throughout the film as the audience is treated to occasional confusing and disorienting footage of what appears to be a ritual massacre of some sort .  knives plunge into flesh , bloody fingers trail off into the darkness , and none of it is explained until the very end , when it was too late for me to care .  this movie didn't stop with showing us the gore , either ; it went for broke and showed us everything .  by the end of the movie , there are no questions remaining about the missing five hours .  it is all explained ; in fact , it is all shown on-screen in loving detail .  i confess to being someone who prefers horror movies in which you never see the monster , or see only brief glimpses , mere suggestions of what the monster is ; it is not because i find the monster so terrifying , but because i find the absence of the monster to be infinitely more terrifying .  i have seen interviews with the director in which he suggested that there is no " monster , " that all of the evil was perpetrated only by the human mind .  i found this to be a miserably poor explanation ; if it was in fact the director's intent , then he needs to have some words with the writer , because it was not made clear at all .   ( i know a lot of people who like to go to parties and get drunk and stoned out of their minds ; none of them has ever gone on a murderous rampage and then experienced mass hallucinations with a group of other people for the next week or so .  and if there was no witch , then what about the vanishing tree ?  the snowfall of manuscript paper ?  hm ? )  blair witch 2 : book of shadows was a horrible movie .  from the poorly-written characters to the implausible story to the plot inconsistencies to the gross-out shots , it was a bad effort through and through .  
i'm giving this stinker .  normally , the worst that i would ever rate a movie would be .  but the total waste of time that is blazing saddles is , compounded by the fact that this movie is incredibly offensive , helped me come to the big goose egg .  i'm not sure what the hell mel brooks was thinking when he made this thing , or if he was even thinking at all .  maybe in mel's little mind a horse being knocked unconscious because of a punch to the face is funny .  in mine , it's not .  or maybe mel graduated from the spike lee school of filmmaking .  because only the self-righteous lee uses the n-word more often in his films than brooks did in this one .  at least lee has the smarts to realize that nobody is going to find that term amusing .  brooks bandies it about like he figures the audience will be rolling in the aisles every time they hear it .  wrong mel !  i would call you a boob mel , but that insults breasts everywhere .  this idiotic attempt at a comedy centers on the evil lieutenant governor's ( harvey korman ) attempts to clear out a town so he can buy up the land cheap and sell it to the railroad .  he sends his goons to run the townsfolk out .  but the town appeals to the governor ( mel brooks in one of many uninspired , and unfunny roles ) to send them a new sheriff to protect them .  the governor pawns the task off to korman's character hedley lamarr .   ( i can tell you are rolling off your chairs right now just thinking of all the humor in that name . )  lamarr decides to send the town a black sheriff ( gasp ) in the hopes that the town will be so disgusted at the prospect of a black man living among them that they will all just leave .  hold on , i've got to stop while these gales of laughter pass .  it's just too funny .  racism passing as humor -- gosh why didn't anybody ever think of that one before ?  oh wait , i think somebody might have -- they are called the kkk .  i'm not calling brooks a racist -- but i am calling him an insensitive bastard who wouldn't know what was funny if it hit him over the head .  but i digress .  anyway , the black sheriff rides into town amid a flurry of townsfolk using the n-word .  golly , will the hilarity just never end ?  he ends up joining forces with a drunk ( gene wilder ) , who happens to be the former fastest gun in the west .  together , they save the day from evil .  not one person in this movie gives a decent performance .  wilder looks like he is recovering from a head injury for most of the movie , and korman looks embarrassed to be a part of the movie .  ok , he really didn't -- but he should have .  the films star cleavon little goes along with the black jokes as if they were discussing the time of day .  i did not laugh once during this whole sorry experience .  i admit to starting to snicker on a couple of occasions .  actually , the end started to look as if it was going to have some promise , but alas , it ended up being as crappy as the rest of the movie .  i can say with full confidence that blazing saddles has no redeeming qualities whatsoever .  mel brooks would be doing the world a favor if he burned every last copy of this film .  
2 days in the valley is more or less a pulp fiction knock off .  it basically involves how a bunch of quirky characters in the los angeles area end up having their lives become intertwined in some very unusual ways .  i'm not going into much greater detail than that , since it would take forever to explain , and quite frankly , i'm not willing to spend any more time on it than the 2 hours that i've already wasted .  while it tries very hard to be pulp fiction , 2 days in the valley falls way short .  this is quite a condemnation considering the cast includes danny aiello , james spader and jeff daniels .  while the story isn't much , and the dialogue and characters rate only marginally better , 2 days in the valley does have a couple of bright spots .  james spader's character , while not much better than the rest , is at least fun to watch in a sick sort of way .  and we do get to see a nice cat fight between uber babes teri hatcher and charlize theron ( in her first role ) .  you know a movie isn't that good when the highlight is a brawl between two women .  even if they are both gorgeous .  i will give the writers some credit for the fairly clever ways in which they managed to intersect the lives of this group of characters that would have otherwise never interacted .  but marveling at that ingenuity is a far cry from actually enjoying the result .  while some of the characters and their respective stories are fairly interesting , they inevitably are brought down as they intersect with the other half of the characters that i really cared absolutely nothing about .  if i were to put a number on it , only about half of the story and half the characters in this movie were particularly interesting or otherwise enjoyable to watch .  this is the sort of movie that only a huge fan of one or more of the cast members should rent , and even then prepare for disappointment .  not even charlize theron being naked would get me to sit through this movie again .  or at least not all of it anyway .  
what would inspire someone who cannot write or act to pen and star in a movie ?  a better question , what would inspire a studio to produce said movie ?  if you have an answer , let me know .  foolish , the new movie written by and starring master p is a jaw-droppingly horrible film , one with no redeeming value socially , cinematically or otherwise .  comedically it has some potential , but only in its stand-up comedy moments , which i can turn on comedy central for .  master p stars as fifty dollah' ( beat that ! ) as a mobster ( i think ) who is trying to start a comedy club/act with his little brother foolish ( eddie griffin ) .  but the two of them have to deal with an angry mob boss ( played by andrew dice clay , for the very first time entertaining ) , a stubborn club owner and family problems ( the latter in foolish is a perfect example of roger ebert's " idiot plot , " if everyone here wasn't an idiot , there would be no problem )  so what does foolish have to offer beside a bunch of idiotic character names ?  not a hell of a lot .  as i have mentioned , master p cannot act or write .  he acts like the rapper that he is .  the occasional despair that his script requires him to exhibit is excruciatingly forced , as are his warm and fuzzy scenes with his little bro .  as for his script -- well , i suppose he delivers what one would expect from a musical artist with no previous screenwriting experience .  if you haven't yet figured it out , that is not saying much .  co-star eddie griffin ( really the star of the show ) is quite a different story .  the fact of the matter is that griffin , whose most significant screen outing to date is probably the mildly successful tv show malcolm and eddie on the fledgling upn network , is an extremely talented comedian , stand-up and otherwise .  he has much in common with chris tucker ( rush hour , money talks ) in how quickly and effortlessly his speech flows from his lips .  he spouts profanity with impressive dexterity ( to the extent which that can be done ) , and while i hope that does not become his trademark it works in a few scenes in this movie .  and indeed , i laughed at a few stand-up scenes here , but from a feature-length movie i expect more .  foolish provided me with no reason to care for these characters .  every scene which has any potential for dramatic impact is effectively diffused by either a stupid joke ( in a scene where tension escalates between the two brothers , foolish blurts out towards his jewelry-sporting sibling " you lay one hand on me and this cemetary is going to be a gold rush " ) or something even more idiotic such as foolish smashing his own car ( to which i said , a bit too loudly for the occasion " huh ? " ) after getting slightly upset with his wife .  believe me when i say that there is nothing in foolish that warrants parting with your hard-earned $8 .  you'll get more laughs from watching 30 minutes of comedy central or any virtually any sitcom if you don't have cable .  eddie griffin fans may enjoy this derivative ( although offensive ) yarn , but everyone else should stay the hell away .  &#137 ;  
synopsis : a novelist struggling with his latest work buys a weird brain with a protruding eyeball encased in a jar .  the brain exerts its evil influence upon the novelist and his secretary , while his wife disapproves .  meanwhile , a loan shark in need of a shave tries to leave his profession .  comments : why is this movie called possessed by the night ?  it's hard to speculate .  most of this film takes place during the day , and the only thing possessing anyone is an icky , pulsating , bubbling brain thingie in a jar .  in case you haven't picked up on this yet , possessed by the night is a bottom-of-the-barrel " thriller " ( i use the term " thriller " loosely here ) which is really cheap and bad .  the plot , which sounds like a cheesy pulp science fiction story from the 1950s , actually serves one purpose : to exploit nude women as often as possible .  writing a movie review for a film like this proves oddly challenging .  there's really not much to say .  the acting is lousy ; although , occasionally , the attempts at acting are so absurd that they garner a chuckle or two from the audience .  most humorous is frank sivero , who plays murray , the novelist's agent .  he is so horrible in this role that one can't help but be amused .  the plot sucks .  nearly half the film is devoted to a loser loan shark who wants out of the profession , even though he has only limited relevance to the movie as a whole .  the dialogue stinks .  a loan shark , for instance , tells another how much he loves bimbos , which is something the audience really doesn't need to know .  everything about possessed by the night is second rate , even the film credits .  as the names of the not-so-talented film crew scrolled by at the end , joseph scales came up , credited as being " assistsant to foley artist . "  someone could have used an editor !  to be honest , the film is basically an excuse to flash frontal nudity and show some sex scenes .  playboy playmate shannon tweed , after all , is the star here .  i suppose that if one wanted this sort of thing , he would like this movie .  why did i give this turkey two stars and not one ?  as a bad movie , it is unintentionally funny enough to keep someone passingly interested in the film .  if you feel possessed to see possessed by the night , however , i'd recommend you exorcise this impulse and watch something else .  
okay , okay .  maybe i wasn't in the mood to watch a mindless action movie ; i am the same person that liked lethal weapon iii , even while admitting that it wasn't as good as the others .  howewer , the latest segal picture didn't look that bad , and since none of my friends would go see a woody allen movie even if i paid them , i went to see it expecting a mild die hard rehash .  boy , was i wrong !  in the first half of the movie , we are already assaulted with segal's acting , ( he is not simply wooden ; he is like a wall ) , gratuitous violence , an incredible plot , sexist and even more gratuitous nudity , and bad lines that obviously were meant as jokes .  by the end , it is obvious that hundreds of navy men are no match for thirty armed special forces soldiers .  not once in the movie did segal appear worried or undecided , which did not do much for increasing the unexistent suspense .  of course , in movies like these , there must be a sidekick , and a love interest .  in these one we are given a two for one package in the form of a playboy model ( in the movie ) , which only functions as a supposed comic relief ( by the way of extremely stupid unfunny lines ) , and to have watering eyes and look away every time something bad happens in the movie .  oh , of course , she appears naked from the waist up , and , of course , segal kisses her at the end after no development of their relationship ; they did not even seem to be interested in each other .  i have never seen so little chemistry between two people in a movie .  often , the villain saves the movie ; unfortunately , the villains here are cartoonish , stupid and unfunny , unmenacing .  how many movies have psycho ex-special forces bad guys ?  too many .  i was able to predict the action all throughout the movie , including the moment where the sidekick saves the hero from certain death , the scene where the bad guy can kill the hero but proceeds to explain his plan to him , the scene where we are shown the hero's superiors are stupid , the scene where the bad guy loses his gun and has to fight the hero hand to hand , etc . . .  simply said , this is movie-making by the numbers , boring , and potentially offensive in going for the lowest common denominator of the audience .  my recommendation : if you go see it , bring a watch .  you'll be looking at it for most of the movie .  my .  rent die hard .  read a book .  stare at the sky .  do not waste your time on this worthless piece of celluloid .  the real sad thing is that there are a lot of movies out that i would rather have seen ; once again , dragged in by my friends , which by the way , liked the movie halfheartedly .  they probably like wrestling too : - ) .  
in life , eddie murphy and martin lawrence play two young men wrongfully convicted of murder and sentenced to life in prison .  after about an hour of watching this movie , you begin to realize how their characters feel .  fortunately , for audience members there's a chance to escape the nearest exit .  this , undoubtedly , is eddie murphy's worst movie and that's an accomplishment .  remember the golden child , harlem nights ?  compared to life , they look like citizen kane .  life is long , predictable , foul-mouthed and only intermittently funny .  its 100-minute running time feels like 100 years .  robert ramsey and matthew stone's script basically consist of murphy and lawrence referring to everyone around them as " motherf . . . s " or " n . . . . .  s . "  you lose count how many times both those obnoxious , offensive words are used .  and if that all it takes to write a script , than any illiterate jackass can sit at a word processor and compose a movie .  but , like life , it will probably stink .  to be honest , the screening audience surrounding me in the theater yucked it up .  but these were the same people who howled at all the flatulence and fat jokes as well .  life is as sophisticated as a belch .  it's crude and stereotypical .  years ago , movies stereotypically portrayed blacks subservient , second-class people , good for being only maids and servants .  for the most part , the lot of blacks and other racial groups have improved .  but a new , more insidious stereotype is creeping into movies .  in many recent films , through actors such as murphy and chris tuckers , blacks are presented as fast-talking , conniving , scam artists or hip-hop , gun-crazy , sex-crazed youths .  both sets of caricatures are demeaning .  and the fault does not rest with the actors .  they have to eat , too .  it is with the people who write the scripts , the studios who green-light the projects and the audiences who accept these portrayals without protest .  life's only redeeming virtue is the artistry of makeup legend rick baker who flawlessly ages murphy and lawrence into 90 year olds .  otherwise , life is an embarrassment , a blot on the resumes of those associated with it .  see it at your own risk .  
there may not be a critic alive who harbors as much affection for shlock monster movies as i do .  i delighted in the sneaky-smart entertainment of ron underwood's big-underground-worm yarn tremors ; i even giggled at last year's critically-savaged big-underwater-snake yarn anaconda .  something about these films causes me to lower my inhibitions and return to the saturday afternoons of my youth , spent in the company of ghidrah , the creature from the black lagoon and the blob .  deep rising , a big-undersea-serpent yarn , doesn't quite pass the test .  sure enough , all the modern monster movie ingredients are in place : a conspicuously multi-ethnic/multi-national collection of bait . . . excuse  me , characters ; an isolated location , here a derelict cruise ship in the south china sea ; some comic relief ; a few cgi-enhanced gross-outs ; and at least one big explosion .  there are too-cheesy-to-be-accidental elements , like a sleazy shipping magnate ( anthony heald ) who also appears to have a doctorate in marine biology , or a slinky international jewel thief ( famke janssen ) whose white cotton tank top hides a heart of gold .  as it happens , deep rising is noteworthy primarily for the mechanical manner in which it spits out all those ingredients .  a terrorist crew , led by squinty-eyed mercenary hanover ( wes studi ) and piloted by squinty-eyed boat captain finnegan ( treat williams ) , shows up to loot the cruise ship ; the sea monsters show up to eat the mercenary crew ; a few survivors make it to the closing credits .  and up go the lights .  it's hard to work up much enthusiasm for this sort of joyless film-making , especially when a monster moview should make you laugh every time it makes you scream .  here , the laughs are provided almost entirely by kevin j . o'connor , generally amusing as the crew's fraidy-cat mechanic .  writer/director stephen sommers seems most concerned with creating a tone of action-horror menace -- something over-populated with gore-drenched skeletons , something where the gunfire and special effects are taken a bit too seriously .  deep rising is missing that one unmistakable cue that we're expected to have a ridiculous good time , not hide our eyes .  case it point , comparing deep rising to its recent cousin anaconda .  in deep rising , one of the creature's victims is regurgitated back into view , partially digested and still alive .  he shrieks in horror at his freakish appearance and pain , in a moment a bit too disturbing to be laughable .  in anaconda , we also see a regurgitated victim , partially digested and still alive .  he looks at another character . . . and  winks .  make no mistake , deep rising has anaconda beat all to heck when it comes to technical proficiency and pacing .  it's also gloomy , uninspired and not nearly enough fun .  i don't ask much of my monster movies , but i do ask that they act like monster movies .  you don't have to show me a fantastically impressive , massive beast with tentacles a-flailing .  just show me the massive beast burping , and i'll figure you get the point .  
renee zellweger stars as sonia , a young jewish wife and mother frustrated by the constraints of her hasidic community in brooklyn .  her husband ( glenn fitzgerald ) is a religious scholar whose all-in-a-day's-work attitude on sex fails to tame the " fire " she feels within , as so she confesses to the rebbe ( after hearing her fiery confession , the rebbe suddenly gets frisky with his pleasantly surprised wife--and dies the next morning ) .  sensing her frustration , her husband's brother ( christopher eccleston ) gives her a job in his jewelry brokering business in exchange for raw , passionless sex that just fans sonia's still-burning flame .  on the job , sonia befriends ramon ( allen payne ) , a cool blast of hunky puerto rican water who does his own jewelry designs when not working as a grunt in an upscale jewelry store .  can fire-taming be far be that far behind for the ever-smoldering sonia ?  just about everything in writer-director boaz yakin's rings false , starting with the improbably cast zellweger , who does an adequate enough acting job but simply looks too waspy for the role .  a better fit would have been julianna margulies , who outshines zellweger as sonia's take-no-crap sister-in-law .  some of sonia's baby steps toward liberation , such as indulging in a non-kosher egg roll in chinatown , come off as silly .  yakin attempts to spice up the proceedings with a touch of magical realism--in the form of the recurring presence of sonia's long-dead brother's ghost--make the story feel even more trite than it already is .   " i didn't know what to expect .  it's like something you chase for so long , but then you don't know how to react when you get it .  i still don't know how to react . "  --michael jordan , on winning his first nba championship in 1991 . . . or ,  my thoughts after meeting him on november 21 , 1997  
there're so many things to criticize about i don't know where to start .  recommendation : turn off your brain - don't be like me , decreasing the rating everyday because i think about it too much .  a comet is about to strike earth , causing a catastrophe similar to the extinction level event ( e . l . e . ) that wiped out the dinosaurs .  what follows is the story of a president's bid to think for the good of his people , a rising reporter , the love story of two teenagers ( one of whom discovered the comet ) , and a team of astronauts on the ship `messiah' to save the world .  firstly , there is nothing outstandingly inferior about the making of the film ( nor is there anything outstandingly good about it ) , but the plot holes make the film corny and stupid .  to be honest , i was more moved by the trailer than the film itself ( which isn't saying much ) .  mimi leder's follow-up to `the peacemaker' is equally incompetent , with all the big stars wasted .   ( perhaps i'm just annoyed that the release of `the peacemaker' in the us overshadowed a far superior thriller , `the assignment' . )  it is very obvious that the title not only represents the big boom that will result from the collision , but also connotes the heavy impact on human lives .  however , the film simply fails on that note .  the effects are worn-out , the substandard screenplay limited the acting , and the director continued her sad run in terms of good-film-making credentials .  she's still making good money though .  t ? a leoni's unfortunate character , the news reporter , is the foundation of the story and of the cast .  but the film suffers from too many characters that do not need to be explored .  robert duvall's aging astronaut is lifeless , and morgan freeman's president is restricted to , well , a righteous president ( which means he's not interesting at all ) .  leoni's character is the only appealing one , and is played with reasonable conviction ( but a rather peculiar showing when reporting for msnbc ) , but was definitely undervalued by the director and screenwriters .  warning : spoilers included ( but a lot of it is irrelevant and predictable anyway ) .  plot holes , plot holes , plot holes .  now , e . l . e .  is threatening to exterminate more than 99% of the human race , and they send eight puny little nuclear bombs up there ?  where's the logic ?  leder could have at least made it plausible with 20 .  and then it turns out that only a few percent of the world population actually perish , and those less selfish ones ( the ones that stayed at home ) were the victims .  the film was almost mocking them , telling them they had died for nothing .  i also fail to see how two teenagers , carrying a baby , would be the first to climb up the mountain/hill , even with a motorbike for a head-start .  it's unlikely that the dust will take just two years to settle , but that doesn't really matter .  building caves was a strategy mentioned in `dr .  strangelove' , which proposed that people lived underground for one hundred or so years .  now that is a more practical use for caves .  what is the point of living in caves ?  there is no , unlike `dr .  strangelove' , any radioactivity outside to restrict exposure .  how do plants grow ?  if humans have the technology to keep plants alive in caves , there's no reason why they can't do it in the open .  the president disclosed that other countries have been preparing their own caves .  obviously this means that the other countries were informed a long time ago , and you can't be serious to say that nobody leaked the news to the media .  in an important mission like that of the `messiah' , for that matter any mission , it is impossible that isn't sufficient fuel for an extra couple of hundred metres , needless to say tens of kilometres .  this is not deep impact ? it's a frivolous cheap impact .  but even with all that , some overacting , and a 3 . 4 rating , it's still watchable , just don't think about it .  okay ?  
don't let this movie fool you into believing the romantic noirs of william shakespeare .  no one will truly understand the heart and soul of this man except through his work , and this movie makes a vain attempt at that .  any moves to ? glamorise' his life , which hollywood has an annoying tendency to do , will only subtract from his achievement rather than expound on his greatness .  this movie about his life , although well written , puts too much make-up on a man whose life was probably more pork and potatoes , rather than lobster and champagne .  oh well , let's fantasise onwards an assume that he was a bit of a flirtatious play-write , who falls in love with a beautiful woman ( gwyneth paltrow ) and from her inspiration , several plays develop - ? romeo and juliet' , and ? the twelfth night' .  it is easier for me to believe that he had a wet dream and that's how all his plays develop , but please spare me all of this unnecessary melodrama .  but i guess my version probably wouldn't draw a crowd or make a dollar on screen .  so is there any justification in romanticising the man shakespeare , when all we need to do is read his work in order to find his soul .  i think not .  as for the oscars were they deserved by this movie ?  i think not .  in many aspects ? private ryan' and ? life is beautiful' were far superior movies , but one should never assume that this should be a criteria for winning an oscar , as time and again , for reasons unexplained , an undeserving movie will win the accolade .  another sore point is the fact that gwyneth won the best female lead , over a more polished cate , but i guess if you go on enough about your grandfather dying and your nephew being hospitalised - people will start feeling sorry for you .  
it's a good thing most animated sci-fi movies come from japan , because " titan a . e . " is proof that hollywood doesn't have a clue how to do it .  i don't know what this film is supposed to be about .  from what i can tell it's about a young man named kale who's one of the last survivors of earth in the early 31st century who unknowingly possesses the key to saving and re-generating what is left of the human race .  that's a fine premise for an action-packed sci-fi animated movie , but there's no payoff .  the story takes the main characters all over the galaxy in their search for a legendary ship that the evil " dredge " aliens want to destroy for no apparent reason .  so in the process we get a lot of spaceship fights , fistfights , blaster fights and more double-crosses than you can shake a stick at .  there's so much pointless sci-fi banter it's too much to take .  the galaxy here is a total rip-off of the " star wars " universe the creators don't bother filling in the basic details which makes the story confusing , the characters unmotivated and superficial and the plot just plain boring .  despite the fantastic animation and special effects , it's just not an interesting movie .  
in the year 2029 , captain leo davidson ( mark wahlberg , " boogie nights " ) is training 'his' chimp pericles to pilot a pod from the usaf oberon space station .  when an electromagnetic storm is encountered and pericles' pod is lost , davidson sets out unauthorized and lands thousands of years in the future on the " planet of the apes . "  maybe if 20th century fox had set the proverbial 100 chimps in front of typewriters they would have gotten a better results than this adaptation of the pierre boulle novel by william broyles jr . ( " cast away " ) , and lawrence konner & mark d . rosenthal ( " mighty joe young " ) .  director tim burton's unique look and style are nowhere to be found in this silly , pointless remake .  davidson no sooner lands than he finds himself being swarmed by savages running in terror , whom he wisely joins .  however , he's rounded up with the lot of them by the apes which rule this plant and handed over to slave trader limbo ( paul giamatti , " duets " ) .  ari ( helena bonham carter , " fight club " ) , daughter of the illustrious senator sandar ( david warner , " titanic " ) and simian bleeding heart , believes humans should live with apes on equal standing , an unpopular notion .  she takes a liking to leo , who she deems 'unusual . '  general thade ( tim roth , " lucky numbers " ) is of the opposite opinion , wishing for declaration of martial law that will allow him to annihilate the race .  he's sweet on ari .  it's relatively easy to see where this 'new' story is going from the onset , yet its ultimate revelation has gaping logic holes .  the much ballyhooed 'surprise' ending is a nonsensical let down .  an attempt at a love triangle , conveyed by ari and the human daena ( estella warren , " driven " ) giving each other 'back off' looks over leo , fails because he never develops a relationship with either of them .  the lone sex scene is some hilarious foreplay between elder orangutan senator nado ( glenn shadix ) and his trophy wife nova ( burton's squeeze , lisa marie ) .  guffaws will also likely greet charlton heston's cameo as thade's father , the one ape harboring a firearm ( ! ) who sputters some very familiar lines before dying .  the only real success of the 2001 " planet of the apes " is rick baker's makeup , and even that's an iffy affair .  no attempt was made to change the human whiteness of the actors' eyes , a real distraction amidst some otherwise impressive work .  roth , warner and michael clarke duncan ( as thade's right hand man attar ) are given the most impressive makeovers .  giamatti looks more like a skull than an ape and the female apes are too humanized to be given sexual appeal .  tim roth delivers the most impressive acting job by getting the body language right - his nasty chimpanzee character leaps about , most spectacularly when mounting his steed , but even's he's undone by some obvious wire work .  bonham carter delivers a goodly range of emotion from behind a stiff prosthetic , but is undone in turn by the silliness of the writing .  most of the film has a set bound look which no amount of mist can cover .  the ape's city resembles a dank complex of tree houses .  the apes' military costumes ( colleen atwood , " sleepy hollow " ) as well as their field tents are reminiscent of eiko ishioka's work on coppola's " dracula . "  that oriental flavor is also found in danny elfman's tribal , percussive score .   " planet of the apes " was the last blockbuster hope for the summer of 2001 , a dismal movie season that's going to the dogs .  
writing a screenplay for a thriller is hard .  harder than pouring concrete under the texas sun .  harder than building a bridge over troubled waters .  and incidentally , a whole heck of a lot harder than writing a movie review .  thrillers are all variations on a theme .  you have a smart , resourceful , and powerful bad guy , who has a goal he has to meet .  you have a noble and brave good guy , who has to protect the innocent , kill the bad guy , and not get killed himself in the process .  the trick of thriller writing is doing all of this in an interesting and novel manner .  this simple formula can lead to classic movies like north by northwest , high noon , or silence of the lambs , or big summer blockbusters like men in black , the fugitive , or air force one , or it can lead to utter dreck like masterminds , event horizon , kull the conqueror . . . .  is anyone else getting depressed here ?  point is , it's not enough to follow the formula .  you've got to throw in something extra , something good and new and better than the last version .  something to surprise and move all of us people who buy the tickets and the popcorn and the happy meals .  this is a hard thing to do , but it is absolutely necessary in every way .  without that something extra -- whether it's a great plot or a well-written screenplay , or great special effects or great locations or great casting or great performances or great big hungry dinosaurs -- the movie fails .  that's why the jackal , with all its starpower , with all its budget , with all its hype , gets a big fat f .  bruce willis is the bad guy , the jackal , a legendary killer for hire .  richard gere is the good guy , a former ira assassin with a vendetta against the jackal .  the jackal is trying to kill someone .  gere is trying to stop him .  will gere be able to stop the assassination in time and kill the jackal ?   ( i'll give you three guesses , and the first two don't count . )  there are no surprises awaiting the audience in the jackal , no moment when you say to yourself , " i wonder what happens next ? "  the script for the jackal isn't ripped straight from today's headlines .  it's ripped off , straight from an episode of millennium .  throughout the movie , we learn what the jackal's plans are and how he intends to accomplish them .  no surprise .  the fun of a movie like this should come from richard gere figuring out what the jackal's plan is and developing a clever plan to foil the bad guy .  instead , we get two ( count 'em , two ) scenes where gere is sitting in an fbi conference room somewhere and instantly divines the jackal's plan just as if he's frank black ( or more likely , just as if he's been handed a copy of the script ) .  and we never get more than a superficial clue as to why gere has had this flash of insight .  it's like gere's character is psychic , but neither he nor the fbi ( or the screenwriters ) seem to know it .  and just like in millennium , the bad guy has an overwhelming need to go after the people the good guy cares about , whether or not they are important to what he's trying to do or not .  what's more , in the last half of the movie , the jackal , supposedly a super-smart professional terrorist who never makes a mistake , comes down with a major case of the stupids .  as for the performances . . .  bruce willis manages to get through the whole movie without a wisecrack , which is a major achievement , but not enough reason to see the movie .  his disguises are good , but not as good or as interesting as val kilmer's in the saint .  richard gere is made to talk the entire movie in an irish accent , which detracts from his otherwise lifeless and dull performance .  sidney poitier is probably the most disappointing element in a overwhelmingly disappointing movie -- not that his performance is bad or anything , it's not , but it is sad that hollywood won't use this talented actor in any part other than an fbi agent ( shoot to kill , sneakers ) .  writing a good plot and a good screenplay , like i said , is hard , but it can be done .  it wasn't done here .  it is our job as consumers to reward good screenplays and to denounce bad and uninteresting ones .  do not go see this movie .  you'll only encourage the producers to make more just like it .  instead , stay home and rent day of the jackal , or in the line of fire , or a fire safety video , for crying out loud .  anything other than the jackal , which lives up to its name by gnawing the dead bones of other , better movies .  
all right , all right , we get the point : despite all similarities to the best-selling story , speechless is * not * based on the romance between 1992 presidential campaign rivals james carville and mary matalin .  in fact , the script was in development well before 1992 .  still , the comparisons are inevitable , until one realizes a critical difference .  no , it's not that the speechless twosome are speech writers , not campaign managers ; it's that carville and matalin's story is actually interesting .  speechless is a limp , poorly structured would-be romantic comedy .  speechless is set during a new mexico senatorial campaign , where kevin vallick ( michael keaton ) and julia mann ( geena davis ) meet and get romantic one night when neither one can sleep .  what neither one realizes is that they are on opposite sides of the campaign : kevin is a sit-com writer brought in to punch up the republican candidate's speeches , while julia is the chief speech writer for the democratic candidate .  at first each one believes that the other has an ulterior motive for the relationship , but eventually they let down their guard and become closer .  but there are plent of obstacles in the way , including julia's stud-reporter fiance ( christopher reeve ) and a series of stunts which continue to prove that all's fair in love and politics .  the standard formula for a movie like speechless would have the two principles starting out as antagonists and realizing only at the end that they're crazy about each other .  screenwriter robert king completely subverts expectations by throwing kevin and julia into each other's arms in the first fifteen minutes , then developing the antagonism .  it's a noble attempt to shake things up , but unfortunately it just doesn't work .  part of the fun of watching sparring in a romantic comedy comes from recognizing the chemistry even before the characters do , but in speechless they already know they're attracted to each other , and we're left with waiting for the campaign to end so they'll admit that they love each other already .  there is such a herky-jerky feel to the constant bickering and making up that even king's sharp dialogue can't prevent speechless from becoming repetitive after about half an hour .  inconsistency is also the defining characteristic of the performances of geena davis and michael keaton , and with those performances most of their scenes together .  the problems begin with their initial courtship , which does virtually nothing to establish julia's character and merely establishes that kevin is a wise-ass .  davis is radiantly beautiful , and keaton is generally entertaining , but these characters are so plastic that nothing that happens to them seems to matter one bit .  in a couple of scenes , like a quiet moment sitting at a fountain , they actually achieve some measure of connection .  for the most part , however , they're just actors spouting lines .  you keep waiting for a little spark , and it never happens .  perhaps most disappointing is that king and director ron underwood completely waste their premise by removing all the punch from speechless's politics .  the setting seems perfect for a high- energy battle of the sexes with partisanship thrown into the mix , but that's never the tone that underwood is going for .  he wants a warm , fuzzy romance compatible with marc shaiman's flute-and-wind musical score , and the campaign which should have defined the conflict between kevin and julia fades into the background .  it might as well have been a story about rival grocers , and every single character is about as uninspired as he or she could possibly be .  i was about the only reviewer in the civilized world who seemed to enjoy robert king's previous screenplay , the dana carvey flop clean slate , so i had some hopes for speechless .  but while there is wit in the words , this is a script which was probably much better on paper .  on screen , it's still paper thin .  
teenagers have a lot of power in hollywood .  every year countless films will be made targeting that audience in particular , and rely on the entire teenage population to turn out on friday and saturday nights , wallets in hand .  the formula is very simple , you make a film with a big name young actor or actress with sex appeal .  you add a high school environment that features everyone from prom queens to math club nerds , and then a very simple relationship conflict that can be worked out in 90 minutes , the typical teenage attention span .  the response is enormous as this part of the population will waste it92s money on almost any = film set in an environment they can relate to , and , most importantly , they don92t care to judge films=92 quality , so any piece of trash will = due .  that is just what never been kissed , the latest film from director raja gosnell , is ; trash .  josie geller ( drew barrymore ) is the youngest copy editor in the history of the chicago sun times .  she has her own personal assistant , unlimited supplies , and her own office .  but she is very much dismayed with her position in life .  there is nothing she wants more than to be a reporter and go out into the field , where she can play a more active role in the chicago media .  so when an assignment is quite literally thrown at her out of nowhere , she jumps at it with elation .  constantly smothering josie in the work place is her friend anita ( molly shannon ) and her amicable superior , gus ( john c . reilly ) .  the two of them are both stricken with horror upon hearing the news of her first assignment , as they both deem her to be an office worker and not a reporter .  however , since this film is aimed at a teenage audience with little patience for character conflict , this otherwise interesting scenario is resolved within two minutes , and josie is headed for the field .  obviously , the field assignment involves a high school .  specifically , she is to become an undercover reporter at a high school , by enrolling in the senior class and " becoming one of them . "  i don92t think that i = need to even begin to explain all the impossibilities of this situation ever occurring , so i won92t .  the movie develops into josie trying to find the life that she never led in high school .  interwoven flashback scenes show us just how much of a dork she truly was , and she appears to be heading down that road again .  fortunately for this lame production , other characters do appear that make some of these high school scenes both humorous and remotely interesting .  they include the predictable love stories , between both a student ( jeremy jordan ) and a teacher ( michael vartan ) , to show that josie is really two people in one body .  also , her younger brother and opposite , rob ( david arquette ) comes into her new found life and even causes a rare scene that is mildly provocative .  the humor found in this film is actually quite amusing .  typical for teenage films , it is chalk full of sexual innuendoes and condom humor .  one scene in particular features a certain classroom activity involving bananas and latex that is absolutely hysterical .  most of the other jokes are straight forward high school humor that anyone who has ever been to high school can appreciate and will enjoy .  but those still don92t = recover for the total lack of quality in this movie .  following this trend of high school movie rules , comes the general acting .  it is even worse than the trend of overplaying a scenario from film to film .  in this case , drew barrymore is absolutely painful to watch .  she is required to play her character on two levels , having some very black and white transitions .  and although some scenes are written to be particular shades of gray , she seems to hold that color throughout all of her screen time .  at one point she is alone with an obvious love interest on a ferris wheel , and is expected to him on an adult level , since he is one , her teacher .  but she never seems to get out of the gray area , and in doing so she makes a mockery out of his otherwise good performance .  following barrymore is the pitiful molly shannon ( saturday night live ) .  she seems to be limited to playing an ecstatic character that no one can relate to , and draws the attention of an audience as simply unrealistic .  it is these " qualities " that prevent the aforementioned condom scene from being one of the few decent .  luckily there is one great performance to emerge out of this otherwise bleak film .  david arquette ( scream ) takes home the prize for being able to stand out in an ensemble performance that is absolutely pathetic , and not have his brilliant acting ruined .  and as a central character he gets to take on his own mini-plot , which is one of the few well done parts of never been kissed .  in a dazzling cherry-on-the-sundae type piece of work , he does an absolutely hilarious tom cruise impression from the 1983 hit , risky business .  never been kissed is a mediocre film at best .  the predictable plot has become so overplayed in hollywood , that it is sickening to watch time and again , and this film is no exception .  the acting is just as bad , but there is the one positive presence of david arquette to add some light .  unfortunately , the bottom line is that the movie will be a success , because teenagers will pay to see any trash .  
walken stars as a mobster who is kidnapped and held for ransom by four bratty rich kids .  it seems that a woman has also been kidnapped--she is the sister of one of them ( e . t . 's  henry thomas ) and the girlfriend of another ( flannery ) --and the asking price is $2 million , which said snots are unable to cough up alone .  they even cut off walken's finger to show they mean business , because they are desperate to save the woman's life .  suicide kings is a terrible film .  walken aside , there isn't a single appealing cast member .  o'fallon creates characters that are functional types without any resonance .  in an amusingly unironic scene , walken plays poker with the foursome and describes each of their personalities to a tee--it's as if he was reading the summary sheet for a casting director .  the plot is another issue entirely .  o'fallon is someone whom i'm betting has seen reservoir dogs and the usual suspects too many times , for not only does his story veer off on bizarre tangents from whence they never return ( do we really need the scene where dennis leary beats up an abusive father with a toaster , which is entirely unrelated to both the story and leary's character , or the numerous anecdotal sequences ? ) , but the central plot itself is a serpentine mess , filled with crosses and double crosses and triple crosses . . .  by the fourth big revelation/twist , i had completely tuned out , wondering what on earth attracted these actors to the material .  recently a peer , a fellow young filmmaker , informed me that he had an idea for a movie about four guys , the mob , and the fbi .  it occurred to me then what's wrong with indies like suicide kings : i suspect o'fallon has never met a mobster , is not a rich man , doesn't deliver endless " clever " monologues to his friends about his favourite types of boots . . .  in short , these guys are just riffing on other movies , and in doing that , making the same film over and over and over again .  tarantino found his niche and now hundreds of genxers with movie cameras are trying to find tarantino's niche instead of carving their own .  -reviewed at the toronto international film festival  
>from writer and director darren stein comes jawbreaker , the poorly told tale of what can happen when an innocent birthday prank goes wrong .  at reagan high , four girls are sitting on top of the world .  courtney shane , played by rose mcgowan , holds the title of meanest , most disrespectful soul in the school .  everyone hates her , but everyone envies her due to her popularity .  courtney is the " leader " of her clique , which also includes julie , played by rebecca gayheart , liz purr , played by charlotte roldan , and marcie , played by julie benz are the other three in the group .  it is liz's seventeenth birthday , and julie , courtney , and marcie concur that they will play a seemingly innocent prank on her , but the prank results in the death of liz .  just like stupid teens in any teen directed film such as this one , the foursome decide to cover up the death to make it look like a murder committed by someone else .  and also just like in other teen directed movies , one of the four don't agree with hiding it , this time that character being julie .  and finally , just like in other teen movies , there is a witness outside the group trying to hide the truth .  this time that character being fern mayo ( judy greer ) , who is subject to many cracks from courtney's group , as well as the entire school .  >from here , jawbreaker turns into a predictable tale of revenge , bad morals , and at least trying to do the right thing .  not only is the script weak , on a whole the acting is horrid thanks to a large amount of the main cast .  judy greer is undeniably awful as her one dimensional , annoying character , as she overacts every line she has .  also on the bad side of acting is julie benz , almost falling to the annoying factor that greer delivers .  on the positive side of acting , rose mcgowan performs well here , but doesn't match her wickedly clever performance as " tatum " , in 1996's scream .  mcgowan's role is annoying , but this only adds to the film .  she is wickedly mean , and even though she a well-written character , you downright hate her .  faring even better than mcgowan is rebecca gayheart , who is always exceptionally believable as her roles .  when the script feeds her a one or two dimensional character , she turns it into three , always putting strong emotion and power into her roles .  gayheart isn't given as much to do here as she was in 1998's urban legend , but you can still get a strong taste of her acting skills in jawbreaker .  jawbreaker drifts and mianders different sub plots throughout , hardly throwing anything for the viewer to get absorbed in .  we get way off of the topic of the jawbreaker incident , and get into things that don't have anything to do with the actual film .  the beginning and ending are strong , it's just the middle that needs a lot of help .  during the body of the movie , it is undeniably repetitive , never progressing towards a conclusion .  nothing to grab the viewer's interest is around , and the same , extremely annoying song plays over and over again .  jawbreaker tries to get off on the same time of humor used in the 1995 film clueless , but falls flat .  the few gags that actually work die off quickly and die off with a bang .  all in all , a horrible disappointment .  the bottom line : the tagline reads , " even the sweetest candies are sour as death inside . "  yes , that is too true .  no matter how good this film may have looked , it fails to deliver .  
well there goes another one .  sadly this like other movies this year wasn't good .  this one being almost as bad as 'the omega code' but not quite .  from the opening credits i had a good feeling this would be bad , and well i guess i was right .  with bad excuses for acting , a horrible screenplay and straight-out bad direction 'the bachelor' is a terribly unfunny movie that doesn't work on any levels accept that fact that rene zellwegar who does give a good performance .  the two cameos by brooke shields and mariah carey are also good with brooke being the best .  the movie is troubled from the start because chris o'donnell is hugely miscast and gives one of the worst performances to date .  here is the stupid plot : chris o'donnell plays jimmie shelton a man who has just broken up with his girlfriend , he meets anne ( rene zellwegar ) they instantly hit it off and are together for three years .  jimmie decides that he wants to bring their relationship a little bit up .  he really doesn't realize that anne thinks he wants to marry her ( what he wants i never did catch ) .  so he proposes in a really bad way , and she shoots him down and is very mad .  he of course tries to apologize but nothing seems to help any .  then his grandfather dies and he learns that he has left jimmie 100 million dollars . . . . as  long as he marries before the next day at 6 : 05 pm .  now jimmie must find anne and try to marry her to get the money and because he loves her , or get married to someone else to get the money itself , leading to an un-funny and predictable ending that leaves a bad taste in our mouths .  ok so maybe this could be one of the dumbest , cliched , silliest romantic comedy to date that has no real big laughs .  even the supporting roles of artie lange , hal holbrook and ed anser aren't even good .  the plot was a good idea , but the script would have to have been written in less than five minutes and by a five year old .  the choppy dialogue and bad directing don't help things any .  even though chris o'donnell gave an ok performance in the two batman movies , he does not give even a remotely good or funny performance here and i wanted to boo and throw my pop at the screen to get rid of him .  rene zelweggar is a different story and gave a charming , sweet and likable performance ( as usual ) and really was the only thing that saved this confused movie from being a total huge washout .  her sister played by marley shelton is also good and the two have good chemistry onscreen .  brooke shields showed up in a funny little performance as a big-headed mogul who after a while became routine and old .  one really can't help but think that we have seen this stuff before .  it's not like this is an original idea and in the end , everyone knows what is going to happen due do its cliches and typicalness .  'the bachelor' works on no good levels and in fact doesn't work at all .  ed anser and hal holbrook were wasted in terrible roles and mariah carey can not act to save her soul , and this could be the only film of her movie career dispite her terrific music career .  chris o'donnell is not as bad an actor as casper van dien but that is not saying a great deal .  he seems held back and really doesn't get into his character much and after even the first 30 minutes gets annoying and old .  artie lange just to me seems like he is trying to another chris farley and was completely unfunny and un-nerving .  why the filmmakers would want to waste such a cast in such a bad movie , with such bad acting and dialogue is a question only they will know .  maybe they thought it would become a hit or a critical success , and sometimes i don't agree with other critics on movies , even from the trailers for this film they made it look bad and showed all the mildly funny parts .  its based on the 1925 silent film 'seven chances' which i am sure is very better than this mess .  even though some may think of this as a good date movie , most who see this will want to pull out thier hair and scream for thier money back .  besides being a terrible movie , 'the bachelor' is well a terrible movie .  it has nothing worth recommending therefore i really can't recommend this movie .  i did not have a good time and i laughed only three times .  the running time of the movie is 106 minutes which is wayyyy over time and needs to be shortened at least thirty minutes .  parts of it seems to go on forever and parts of seem to not last enough time .  being one of the worst movies of the year , we can be sure that i hope they will not make anymore stupid unfunny romantic comedies , and if they do they i give up on filmmakers .  
my inner flag was at half-mast last year when nick at nite pulled " dragnet " reruns off the air .  sure , i'd seen them all at least once , but i could always count on at least a few inadvertent laughs from ultra-serious jack webb when there was nothing else on tv .  even though " dragnet " is out of circulation at the moment , we webb anti-fans still have the d . i . , a 50's propaganda piece for the military that is almost as hilarious as the famous " blue boy " episode of " dragnet . "  for anyone like me who got laughs out of webb's rapid-fire speeches and straight-faced seriousness , think of the d . i .  as what would happen if sgt .  joe friday ever enlisted , because he plays exactly the same character here , a no-nonsense old fart who looks with disdain at the younger generation and loves to give long- winded , melodramatic speeches on any topic .  in this election year , i'm more convinced than ever that webb and bob dole were separated at birth .  the movie opens in characteristic fashion as one recruit after another knocks on webb's office door and enters .  he gives each one a different series of cranky criticisms before the credits come up .  the " produced and directed by jack webb " card pretty much goes without saying .  this is his movie all the way , and after the first twenty minutes of him chewing out his recruits for no reason , i was wondering if there would even be a plot .  i certainly would have been entertained by an hour and a half of trademark webb rants , but the d . i .  gives us more -- much more .  webb's mission is to make a man out of private owens , the local screw-up .  the captain gives webb three days to convert owens into marine material or , the captain will " personally cut the lace off his panties and ship him out myself . "   ( whether the " lace panties " part refers to webb or owens remains unanswered . )  this , of course , gives webb an excuse to focus all his crotchety energy on making owens' life a living hell .  for those of you who haven't been indoctrinated into the pleasures of webb watching , here's a reprint of a typical monologue of his .  i can't duplicate his hilarious delivery on paper , but the words should at least partially convey what i'm talking about . . .   " now you listen to me , youngster .  someday you'll wake up fighting on a beach and you'll pray to god somebody doesn't get killed because of your foolishness . . .  i've got a headline for you : every time you make one of those little mistakes of yours , you're gonna turn around and i'll be standing right there . "  i couldn't write down all the reprintable dialogue from the d . i .   ( nearly all of it belongs in the bad movie hall of fame ) , but i tried to include some of the more noteworthy lines , like one from the scene where webb unwinds from a hard day's work by going to the local bar ( where he orders a tomato juice ) .  he meets a woman who , coincidentally , also orders tomato juice but walks away from a typically-stimulating conversation with webb to flirt with his arch-rival , another marine d . i .  webb marches over to the table , gets up in her face and says , " just what kind of a dame do you think you are ? "  bogart he ain't .  the other d . i .  gets one of the few memorable non-webb lines when he confesses to the girl , " he's a damn good d . i .   . . .  i guess i'm just a little jealous . "  join the club , we're all jealous of jack webb's way with women , which is showcased even more amusingly in a later scene , as webb finds his way to the woman's place of employment , a lingerie store , and stands around looking incredibly flustered at the negligees on display .   " you expect me to talk to you . . .  in _here_ ? ! " he exclaims , no doubt intimidated by the barrage of bras .  the woman goes off to help a customer , leaving webb to fend for himself once again in this palace of estrogen .  a little girl spots him in the store and demands , " what are you doing in here . . . you're a man , aren't you ? "  he doesn't reply , but you know he's thinking in his head , " what an odd species of human -- so small .  must be one of those children everyone's been talking about . "  this poor girl , scarred for life by her early encounter with jack webb , would later swear off the male gender entirely , just one of the many lesbian conversions he's responsible for .  the movie doesn't focus too closely on webb's romance , it also continues the owens subplot with probably the most memorable scene in the entire movie , where webb forces his platoon to spend the entire night searching the ground for a flea owens killed during one of their drills .  after two privates hatch a scheme to present webb with the wrong dead flea , webb asks owens , " was that flea you killed a male or female ? "  owens replies , " a male , sir . "  webb yells to the platoon , " this ain't the one ! "  that such a scene ( along with the rest of the movie ) was intended to be taken seriously defies comment .  but we know it was all presented with the utmost seriousness when a title card at the end thanks the marines not only for their cooperation in the making of the d . i . , but for iwo jima , guadalcanal and every other major battle of the first half of the 20th century .  webb held the military in such high esteem that all the soldiers in the movie ( with the exception of owens ) were played by actual marines .  someone wanting to parody this movie couldn't do a more comical job than webb did .  it makes it all the more ironic ( like raeeyain on your wedding day ) that the man had no sense of humor himself .  there's a scene in the movie where the guys are on their break time discussing something and one of them breaks into laughter .  webb bursts in the room and shouts , " what did i tell you about laughing ? ! "  to which the private replies , " sir , only nine-year-old girls laugh , sir ! "  and let me tell you , i was as happy as a nine-year- old girl while watching this movie .  
frank detorri's ( bill murray ) a single dad who lives on beer and junk food with no apparent understanding of sanitation or hygiene , much to the dismay of his preteen daughter shane ( elena franklin ) .  when he uses the '10 second rule' to retrieve a hard boiled egg from a chimp's cage at the zoo and downs it , he introduces a lethal bacteria into his system .  inside his skin , the city of frank is in turmoil thanks to the vote-pandering of mayor phlegmming ( voice of william shatner ) , so it's up to one frank pd white blood cell ( voice of chris rock ) to save the day in peter and bobby farrelly's " osmosis jones . "  the city of frank is a brightly animated ( animation directed by piet kroon and tom sito ) cellular municipality where osmosis jones is a typical rogue cop looking for another chance .  he's inadvertently teamed up with drix ( voice of david hyde pierce , tv's " frasier " ) , a cold capsule with 12 hours worth of painkillers to dispense .  this quarrelling duo are about to go on a " fantastic voyage " in order to hunt down thrax ( voice of laurence fishburne ) , the virus intent on shutting down frank .  while the animation is certainly colorful to look at , osmosis jones' story is a hackneyed one .  the story cries out for puny puns , but we only get occasional sprinklings of wit or bodily humor ( drix graduated phi beta capsule , he departs on a bus headed for bladder ) .  neither the hero or villain is particularly interesting ( thrax looks like an animated " predator " ) , although hyde pierce is a delightful sidekick .  adults can desperately keep their eyes peeled for small amusements the animators dot along the landscape .  meanwhile , back in live action land , bill murray is reduced to nothing more than a walking gross-out joke .  there's no particular enjoyment to be found watching him vomit on molly shannon ( she plays shane's teacher , mrs . boyd ) or hoisting his ingrown toenail onto a restaurant table .  one must wonder how the climatic flatlining of a child's father will play to the family audience as well .  rest assured , the whole enchilada is wrapped up with a fart joke .  while far less offensive than the farrelly's last effort " me , myself and irene , " that film at least spiked some comic highs with jim carrey's hijinx .   " osmosis jones " will probably be ok for the kids , but the farrellys playing for the family audience is like watching marilyn manson croon a phil collins tune .  
woof ! too bad that leap of faith was the title of a 1992 comedy starring steve martin and debra winger , because that's what's required to watch this incredulous howler starring bruce willis as--of all things--a psychologist .  not since the reagan administration has there been an acting stretch of such magnitude !  alas , mickey rourke , we hardly knew ye .  story opens with a campy kick--willis is treating a patient who abruptly steps out of the window to take the best flying leap since charles durning dove in the hudsucker proxy .  she goes splat , he goes ugh , and his character spends the rest of the film colorblind .  really .  the good doctor then moves to sunny l . a . , where he rooms with an old college chum ( scott bakula ) , a therapist who's getting death threats from someone in his monday evening group .  buddy bites it in the second reel ( no surprise there ) and willis agrees to take over both the group and the death threats .  for his troubles as therapy man , willis gets to share some cut-from-nc17 love scenes with the lover's jane march while dodging nails , cars , and rattlesnakes .  why'd it have to be snakes ?  color of night is the worst movie of the year .  period .  forget north , clifford , or , heaven help us , even on deadly ground .  here is a movie misfire so audaciously awful that you can't help but wonder how the actors all kept straight faces while filming .  for starters , the " group " is a collection of mixed nuts better suited to bob newhart than bruce willis .  these are realistic portrayals of the mentally unhealthy ?  playing a prissy obsessive/compulsive , cuckoos nest alumni brad dourif , alone , may set the psychology profession back ten years .  the plot's a wreck with laughable dialogue , pointless pov shifts , and the one big secret solvable in the first fifteen minutes .  director richard rush , who once helmed freebie and the bean , doesn't seem to mind .  unfazed by the nincompoop plot and cuckoo characterizations , he overfills the film with enough canny camera shots and zany set-pieces to make the effort almost worth watching .  his token freeway chase is ok , but the director has more fun with a vertiginous ending ala ( most recently ) fatal analysis .  acting credits are across-the-board awful .  willis can be forgiven because he's filming die hard 3 as we speak .  but what about ruben blades insulting presence as the cop ?  or lesley ann warren's stereotypical sex addict ?  or worst offender jane march as a mystery-girl-who's-no-real-mystery ?  shudder .  bottom line : how they all kept straight faces , i'll never know .  
there's only one presidential election every four years , but it seems like every few months we get another presidential conspiracy movie painted as _the_ thriller of the year .  in 1997 , we've had absolute power , air force one , shadow conspiracy and murder at 1600 .  this one is about as lame duck as old gerald ford , trying to bring us a complex plot of cover-up and intrigue but copping out over and over again with rehashes of action flick standbys .  here's what happens this time .  it's night at the white house .  a secretary is having sex with some unidentified guy with a cute butt .  the next day she's dead and hotshot detective wesley snipes is called in .  how do we know he's a hotshot ?  we've seen the traditional action flick opener -- the clever hostage negotiation scene .  it's not so clever this time , consisting of snipes disarming a suicidal ex-government employee holding a gun to his head in the middle of the street .  snipes is off to the white house , where he finds the secret service head ( the shiny bald head of daniel benzali ) won't cooperate with him at all .  in fact , if not for the intervention of national security adviser alan alda , snipes wouldn't have been allowed in the white house at all .  alda helps snipes out further , assigning a sexy secret service agent ( diane lane ) to act as his liaison . . .  a very dangerous liaison .  well , not really , i just wanted to say that .  almost immediately , a suspect is found , an eccentric night janitor seen flirting with the deceased on one of the security videos .  snipes doesn't buy it , and launches into an independent investigation of his own , one that reveals planted evidence and romantic involvement by the president's son .  snipes' partner , an always- wisecracking dennis miller , calls him up every once in awhile with more news and lane , who at first doesn't believe snipes , eventually and predictably comes around , and risks her ass to break into social security storage and break out some classified information .  for the first hour or so , murder at 1600 looks like it could be going somewhere interesting .  sure , we have to sit through the lame opening sequence and plenty more lame scenes after that , but the whole murder in the white house thing makes for an interesting premise that is never quite delivered upon .  snipes and lane don't make for a bad action team , but with nothing to work with , they're just cogs in the bad movie machine .  dennis miller might as well not even be in the movie ; they waste his talents more in murder at 1600 than they did in bordello of blood , and that's saying a lot .  when you get to the last half-hour , the movie has descended metaphorically and literally into a wet sewer , busting out the old break-into-the-building underground climax .  and when they finally reveal who killed the woman and why , you'll wish you never sat through this movie at all .  the " 1600 " in the movie's title doesn't represent an address , it represents the number of satisfied customers worldwide .  serving the world for nearly 1/25th of a century !  
ah , and 1999 was going along so well , too .   " she's all that " has the dubious distinction of being the worst movie i've seen so far this year .  and quite frankly , i doubt i'll see anything equally bad .   ( at least , i * hope * i don't see anything equally bad ) .   " she's all that " tells the story of the most popular guy in school ( played by freddie prinze jr . ) who accepts a bet to transform the geekiest girl in school ( rachel leigh cook ) into the most popular .  that , right there , is problem #1 .  how many times have we seen this storyline ?  as cook comments near the end of the film , " it's kind of like " pretty woman " , except without the prostitution " .  of course , had the filmmakers attempted to try something new with this material , the well-worn storyline would have been a device to propell the movie forward .  as it is , though , " she's all that " relies * completely * on the lame and overused formula to push it ahead .  there's not one original or interesting character in the film , either , and if that wasn't bad enough , there's not one good performance featured .  the star of the movie , rachel leigh cook , is simply horrible .  i usually don't like to get so personal , but in this case , i think it needs to be said .  cook wears the same expression throughout the flick and looks to be having as miserable a time as i was .  i was never convinced that she was a " nerd " , and her transformation was unconvincing and unnecessary .  the movie seems to be saying it's better to be popular than to be who you are .  as for freddie prinze jr . , an actor i ordinarily enjoy , he too is quite bad here .  he coasts through the film on so-called charm , and never establishes a real character .  kieren culkin is here , too , as the brother of cook .  and for some indiscernable reason , he's got hearing aids .  no explanation is given and they're never brought up .  were we supposed to feel * sorry * for him just because he wore hearing aids ?  i don't think so .  that single element of the film was one of the most offensive things i've seen in a movie in a long time .   " she's all that " sucks .  that's what it boils down to .  it's not entertaining , and it's not even a good time passer .  the hour and a half running time goes by slower than a 5 minute hair-removal system informercial .  and what's worse , it sends out a bad message to teens .  it appears to be telling them , " hey , it doesn't matter if you're happy the way you are .  that's unimportant .  if you want to * truly * be happy , dress in the latest fashions and act like a bubble-headed moron . "  ugh .  
michael robbins' hardball is quite the cinematic achievement .  in about two hours , we get a glancing examination of ghetto life , a funeral with a heartfelt eulogy , speeches about never giving up , a cache of cute kids ( including a fat one with asthma ) , a hard-luck gambler who finds salvation in a good woman and a climactic " big game , " where the underdogs prove to have a bigger bite than anyone ever imagined .  all that's needed is a guy getting hit in the nuts and a food fight to have the first film solely based on cinematic clich ? s .  i can't wait to see the deleted scenes when it comes out on dvd .  obviously , hardball is a strikeout of a movie that never gets the bat anywhere near the ball .  it stars keanu reeves as the aforementioned gambler , who seems to owe every bookie in chicago an amount of money that rivals the gross national product of guam .  out of solutions , he begs his successful corporate friend ( the always welcome mike mcglone ) to lend him $5 , 000 .  instead , mcglone offers reeves the chance to help him coach a youth baseball team from the projects for a nice weekly stipend .  reeves , who wants to keep his fingers , accepts the offer , but discovers mcglone is only too happy to let him handle the team entirely .  the drowsy-voiced protagonist must teach the sassy inner city kids the baseball basics in a life of absentee parents and merciless gangs .  and maybe , just maybe , they'll play in the big championship game .  one of the glorious surprises in the screenplay by john gatins ( summer catch ) , adapted from daniel coyle's non-fiction book , is that there aren't any .  the movie coasts from heartfelt moment to heartfelt moment like a zombie .  that wouldn't be so bad , if the characters had an ounce of subtlety or humanity to them .  most of the kids' time is spent yelling at each other , talking in slang and acting surprised .  there's little that's naturally amusing about them , as they all seem to know the cameras are rolling .  the worst of the lot is a tough-talking younger player ( dewayne warren ) whose sole purpose , as the movie unfolds , is being an emotional pawn , a tactic so utterly despicable i can't find the right words to express myself .  the adults also don't fare well .  reeves is impressively uninspiring as the down-on-his-luck loser .  the character is poorly written , but reeves gives another charisma-free performance .  every time he speaks , he sounds like he just got up from a long nap and is gradually waking up .  kids are supposed to rally around this guy ?  diane lane , who co-stars as reeves' obligatory love interest , remains a glowing screen presence ( see my dog skip for better proof ) .  it's too bad that her role here consists of uttering lines like , " these kids trust you , and they don't trust anyone ! "  then there's d . b .  sweeney as an evil rival coach and john hawkes as reeves' scummy betting buddy and other unoriginal characters you've seen before and hope never to see again .  i wanted hardball to be good .  robbins' varsity blues was a funny and alternately taut tale of texas high school football that had ali larter smothered in whipped cream and jon voight sneering at everything that moved .  i haven't seen robbins' goofy ready to rumble in its entirety , but i am intrigued that " macho man " randy savage and martin landau can exist in the same movie without there being serious worldwide repercussions .  robbins obviously needs to go back to his forte -- making sports movies for guys and not cutesy , cuddly pap such as hardball , which also manages to annoy and insult the audience .  here's hoping that happens in the immediate future .  
you know something , christmas is not about presents .  it's about over-hyped holiday films with lots of merchandising and product tie-ins .  at least that would seem to be the message of " the grinch , " which has been advertised since last christmas and whose logo is currently plastered all over stores .  hollywood expects us to ignore this cynical greed as the movie scolds us about losing the true spirit of the season .  you know the plot : there's this evil furry green guy called the grinch ( jim carrey ) who lives on a mountain overlooking whoville .  down below all the whos are preparing for their whobilation , but the grinch is determined to steal their christmas .  the movie is , of course , a live-action version of the beloved children's book , which was previously adapted into a 1966 tv special by looney tunes animator chuck jones .  it's rare that a big budget hollywood release is shamed by a thirty-year-old half-hour cartoon , but that's the case when jones' version is compared to ron howard's .  the tv grinch hit all the right notes : boris karloff's soft , deep narration ; thurl ravenscroft singing " mr . grinch " ; max the dog weighed down by the gigantic antler tied to his head ; and the grinch's wide , toothless grin .  by contrast , the movie hits one sour note after another .  first , there are the numerous bad choices that jeffrey price and peter seaman made in padding out the short book into a 105-minute movie .  young wide-eyed cindy lou who ( taylor momsen ) is depressed about the misplaced priorities of her parents ( bill irwin and molly shannon ) during the holiday season .  she begins to sympathize with the grinch , who turns out to be surprisingly sympathetic .  cindy lou discovers that the grinch turned tearfully away from whoville in grammar school when he was publicly humiliated while expressing his love for the prettiest girl in the class , martha may whovier ( played as an adult by christine baranski ) .  are we expected to like the grinch , hate the whos , and want him to steal christmas ?  the grinch isn't even the villain here ; that role is filled by the corrupt mayor of whoville ( jeffrey tambor ) who was the grinch's rival for martha's affection .  not only are the characters needlessly complex , but the once-simple plot becomes so convoluted that the actual theft of christmas seems like an afterthought .  the casting choices aren't any better than the screenwriting decisions .  jim carrey seems woefully miscast .  while his face is so supple that the rubber make-up seems superfluous , carrey brings nothing else to the role .  his accent keeps changing ; i assume he was shooting for karloff , but he ends up sounding like a weird slurry of richard nixon , sean connery , and cartman from " south park . "  not knowing what else to do during his many scenes alone in the grinch's home , carrey falls back on his stand-up comedy and clowns around ace ventura-style .  needless to say , his wise-cracking antics don't quite fit the character of the grinch , who is an embittered loner filled with hate .  little taylor momsen brings little to role of cindy lou except big eyes and a cute smile .  she would have been fine if cindy lou was limited to her original purpose in the seuss story ( finding " santa " in her living room stealing the tree ) .  however , the expanded script makes cindy as important as the grinch , and momsen is not up to the challenge .  bottom line : when you're stealing christmas ( movies ) , leave this one behind .  
in the mid-1980s , following the splendid debut in hugh hudson's greystoke and relative success of first highlander film , it looked like christopher lambert's acting career might go somewhere .  but , it wasn't meant to be , which became obvious following highlander ii .  in this decade christopher lambert became associated with films with low budgets and even lower quality .  very often such films were science fiction , which meant that the fans of that genre learned the hard way what to evade anything starring christopher lambert .  whether it was because of real lack of talent , terrible miscasting or simple bad luck isn't important - the end result was almost always horrible .  the same can be said for fortress , 1993 science fiction film directed by stuart gordon , director who created cult following with his 1980s horror gorefests like reanimator and from beyond .  the movie is set in 2018 .  for some undisclosed reason , usa introduced strict population control and couples are barred from having more than one child .  jake ( christopher lambert ) and karen brennick ( lori laughlin ) broke that law and are caught by authorities on the border .  sentenced to 31 years in prison , they are both thrown into fortress , privately owned correctional facility , equiped with state-of-the-art futuristic technology and run by computer called zed .  although equiped with gismos that regulate every aspect of inmates' lives and make any escape impossible , prison authorities often use violence .  jake survives many ordeals and earns respect of some inmates which would help him when he begins planing the escape .  such escape should become necessity , because the warden poe ( kurtwood smith ) begins showing unhealthy interest in karen .  after rather intriguing beginning and some interesting special effects that depict the futuristic settings of prison , this film soon starts sinking into mediocrity .  the reason is in the screenplay that quickly degenerates into whole series of prison movie clich ? s and situations that are painfully predictable .  by the time brennick begins his escape from fortress , those situations not only begin to look predictable , but utterly implausible too .  of course , film never tried to explain why the country that lacks resources to support its present population happens to spend bucketloads of money on ultra-expensive supertechnology with sole intention of keeping alive most useless and dangerous members of the society .  the initially interesting plot is done even more wrong by stereotyped characters , played by not too interested or talented actors .  lori laughlin , although physically attractive , shows the acting ability of sequoia .  kurtwood smith as prison warden is rather uninspired , capable of solid , yet forgettable performance .  lambert's performance is also good , but even the bigger talent couldn't help this film , destined to end in oblivion .  
susan granger's review of " the musketeer " ( universal pictures )  hollywood launches another assault on classic literature with this $50 million adaptation of alexandre dumas's novel that's strong on action but weak on drama , fusing hong kong martial arts with 17th century swordplay .  the story chronicles the adventures of the dashing d'artagnan ( justin chambers ) as he leaves his village of gascogne , headed for paris , to join king louis xiii's elite guard , the royal musketeers , and to search for the man who killed his parents 14 years earlier .  this puts him in conflict with the formidable febre ( tim roth ) , vicious henchman for conniving cardinal richelieu ( stephen rea ) .  the traditional musketeer trio - aramis ( nick moran ) , athos ( jan gregor kremp ) and porthos ( steve speirs ) - don't offer much help so he turns to the feisty francesca ( mena suvari ) , chambermaid to the queen of france ( catherine deneuve ) .  scripter gene quintano and director-cinematographer peter hyams are primarily interested in the derring-do , as evidenced by choreographer xin-xin xiong's elaborate - but not original - stunts , including a fast-paced stagecoach chase , a tavern brawl on rolling barrels , high-wire acrobatics with the combatants dangling from ropes , and a ladder-fight sequence .  filmed in southern france , the scenery , sets and costumes are spectacular , but the lighting is too dark and editing is filled with choppy , restless mtv'ish cuts .  as the swashbuckling d'artagnan , bland calvin klein model justin chambers buckles where he should be swashing , totally lacking on-screen charisma , not to mention acting skill .  mena suvari , so impressive in " american beauty , " seems like a contemporary interloper in the royal court .  on the granger movie gauge of 1 to 10 , " the musketeer " is a cinematic but shallow 3 .   " all for one and one for all " ?  not this time 'round .  
note : some may consider portions of the following text to be spoilers .  be forewarned .  at the end of the day , those reflecting upon the debacle that is the avengers would do well to take note that warning clouds loomed on the horizon for the project well before warner bros . made the contentious decision to abandon preview press screenings and scrapped plans for a gala premiere .  this highly-anticipated film rendition of the cult television show was originally slotted for an early june opening , where it would have gone head-to-head against the rival studios' heavy hitters ; its eventual demotion to a less potent mid-august opening was an obvious early indication of the studio's lack of confidence with the picture .  and with good reason .  this is a joyless exercise of a film , held together by a barely coherent plot and lacking any semblance of excitement , thrills or wit .  remarkable in its banality and brutally uninvolving , the avengers is a catastrophic mess which immediately invites comparisons to last year's case study in style over substance , joel schumacher's much-loathed batman & robin .   ( indeed , both films even feature appalling , ridiculous sequences which find central characters dressed up in fuzzy oversized costumes . )  uma thurman , who takes on the salacious role of the catsuit-clad , karate-chopping emma peel immortalized by diana rigg , was the only bright spot in the aforementioned schumacher disaster , imbuing her poison ivy with a dose of sassiness and sly wit that gave audiences something to smile at amidst the cinematic carnage .  unfortunately , the same can't be said here , where she and cohort ralph fiennes ( our new john steed , taking over for patrick macnee ) demonstrate no appreciable chemistry whatsoever , fatally crippling the picture as they volley fizzling repartee back and forth and trade double-entendres with all the enthusiasm of two actors painfully aware that they're on board a sinking ship .  at this rate , usually-splendid actor mr . fiennes may never make the transition from arthouse apollo to mainstream leading man -- his tepid turn here will make as much of an inroad as his commendably seedy performance in the regrettably-neglected kathyrn bigelow film strange days .  the duo * look * the part -- and admittedly the avengers is , more than most , heavily dependent upon style -- but they're no fun to watch , and i found myself growing increasingly distant and annoyed by the lack of spark between the two cheekily ironic characters as they navigated through the picture's caper-esque plot .  when not checking my wristwatch or shifting restlessly in my seat , i began to alleviate the boredom by considering how this all might have played out had the filmmakers chose to go instead with that erstwhile emma as our mrs . peel -- no , not kate beckinsale ( although the notion now intrigues me ) , but gwyneth paltrow , who was originally in the running for the part and can veritably handle a spot-on english accent .  if nothing else , it'd at least be highly entertaining for the incongruous sight of the vaguely twiggish young actress kicking butt .  the story , such as it is , involves the ever-bemused tandem of steed and peel combating the malevolent sir august de wynter ( sean connery ) , an eccentric aristocrat threatening the safety of the nation with his climate-controlling contraption .   ( they also sip a lot of tea . )  overlooking some goofy cloning nonsense and quirky hijinx involving our protagonists' superiors , it sounds far better than it plays , and is rendered almost indecipherable by blatant post-production tinkering ; it's clearly evident that the picture has been cut to shreds .  the avengers was never about gripping drama , and our heroes accordingly never take villainous sir august very seriously , but given the lack of cohesion in the plot and the lack of menace conveyed by the buffoonish maniac , it's all decidedly uncompelling .  mr . connery , who's onscreen barely long enough to register an impression , approaches the role like a man fulfilling a contractual obligation , simultaneously chewing the scenery while unable to hide his disinterest .  at least it all looks good .  this is a genuinely handsome production , with fine costume design by anthony powell and crisply shot by roger pratt .  in particular , the gleaming production design by stuart craig commands attention , adeptly drawing elements both old and new in order to depict this great britain .  there are a handful of striking visual moments in the film , including an attack by a swarm of giant robotic bees and a nice shot of steed and peel finding a way to walk on water , but the film is so unremittingly dull that even these instances fail to stir interest or raise pulse rates .  by the time the film's climax had arrived , my interest was not with the sight of steed and sir august slugging it out amidst crashing waves and thundering rain , but with the quickest escape route from the theatre .  not coincidentally , the enticing bits of visual bravura were the shots assembled into the movie's remarkable trailer , a savvy piece of work which ironically is infinitely more appealing that the feature film itself ; the first promo which made the rounds in early spring is probably my favourite studio trailer so far this year .  it's everything that the avengers is not -- saucy , clever , engaging , and entertaining .  a crushing disappointment , the film is one of the worst outings of the year -- too drearily awful to be savoured as gleefully bad , too polished to overlook its deficiencies .  there may be upcoming pictures that are even more lifeless than the avengers , but i sure hope not .  
stallone attempts to 'act' in this cop drama .  the film is set in a neighbourhood pratically built by kietal , who's nephew ( played by michael rappaport ) is involved in a car crash and killing of two black youths .  keital dosen't really want to get involved in anything , gets rid of rappaport , and stallone and de niro try to work out what the hell is going on .  this film should be brilliant .  it sounds like a great plot , the actors are first grade , and the supporting cast is good aswell , and stallone is attempting to deliver a good performance .  however , it can't hold up .  although the acting is fantastic ( even stallone isn't bad ) the directing and story is dull and long winded  some scenes go on for too long , with nothing really happening in them .  in fact , the only scenes that do work are action scenes , which i suspect stallone was trying to avoid .  in this film , serious means dull .  the dialogue is warbling , and basically just repeats the same points over and over , no matter who is delivering them .  the plot , which has potential , is wasted , again just being cliched after a while .  in fact , the only thing that does keep the film going is kietal and de niro , both delivering their usual good performances .  however , stallone , although not given much to say , gives a good performance .  however , it's not all that bad .  as said above , the action scenes are well done .  theres also a very good ending , which uses the cinemas sound system well .  in fact , the last 10 minutes of this 2 hour film are one of the best endings of 1997 .  if only the rest of the film was as good as the ending .  cop land , then , turns out not to be a power house film , but a rather dull , and not every exciting film .  hugely disappointing , and i can't really recommend it .  
the first species was a moderately-successful science fiction yarn that diverted audiences with some nifty special effects , a few well- paced action sequences , and frequent views of model-turned-actress natasha henstridge sans clothing .  however , it was definitely not a movie that cried out for a sequel .  and , considering the quality of species 2 , it's obvious that mgm should have stopped while they were ahead .  the only thing that distinguishes species 2 is how awful it is .  if you throw away the plot , which is characterized by a blatant disregard for intelligence , logic , coherence , and consistency , species 2 actually has a few things to recommend it to a select audience .  of course , that audience is primarily comprised of teenage boys ( who , at least in theory , shouldn't be able to get into an " r " -rated film ) and connoisseurs of bad movies .  there's enough blood , gore , simulated sex , and bare flesh in species 2 to prevent it from ever becoming boring .  this is a grade z exploitation flick that's ripe for the mystery science theater 3000 treatment .  somewhere , someplace , i recall hearing species 2 described as " erotic . "  i would love to know who used with that adjective for this movie , because he ( or she ) has a peculiar notion of eroticism .  sure , there's a lot of sex and nudity , but it's almost always accompanied by the ripping open of a woman's abdomen as an alien baby claws its way free , splattering blood and gore in all directions .  anyone turned on by that is not someone i would care to be sitting next to in a theater .  i suppose the main attraction in species 2 is natasha henstridge ( and , to get the obvious question out of the way -- yes , she does remove her top , but only once , and only briefly ) .  although the character she played in the original species is dead , government scientists still have the dna , and , out of what can only be described as a suicidal impulse , they decide to create another clone .  this creature , dubbed " eve " by its creator , dr . laura baker ( played by marg helgenberger , reprising her role ) , is genetically engineered to be kinder and more docile .  meanwhile , man has finally set foot on mars .  a team of three , led by patrick ross ( justin lazard ) , has traveled to the red planet , but when they return to earth , they bring something with them .  ross has become a half-human/half-alien hybrid , and he's soon mating like crazy , collecting the blood-soaked children that are the result of each sex session .  his intention is obviously world domination .  standing in his way is that indomitable soldier of fortune from the first film , preston lennox ( michael madsen ) , and one of patrick's fellow astronauts , dennis gamble ( mykelti williamson ) .  but when patrick learns about eve , a female of his kind , there's no damping his ardor .  i'm not sure what the budget for species 2 was , but a significant portion of it must have gone into paying handsome salaries to several recognizable actors ( as opposed to being diverted into the special effects ) .  michael madsen and marg helgenberger , both back for a second round , are clearly on hand to do as little as they can , grab the money , and run .  ditto for james cromwell , who plays patrick's father -- " underused " is too kind a word to describe his involvement ( " invisible " would be more like it ) .  george dzundza gets to do a little scenery- chewing as an angry-but-inept general .  meanwhile , justin lazard's performance as patrick is so flat that he makes natasha henstridge's limited abilities look good by comparison .  the only one in the whole production with any energy is mykelti williamson , who is cast in the part of the wisecracking black sidekick .  complete with cheesy special effects , bare breasts around every narrative corner , and dialogue capable of producing howls of laughter , species 2 has been dumped into the marketplace without advance screenings for critics .  director peter medak , a journeyman film maker with a significant list of mediocre movies on his resume , has added another forgettable title , but at least he appears to have had fun doing it , which is more than can be said of anyone trying to take this film with even a scintilla of seriousness .  do i recommend the movie ?  absolutely not , but i will admit that species 2 is dopey enough that it didn't try my patience to the degree that some pseudo-intellectual bad movies do .  here's hoping there's no species 3 .  
a number of critics have decided that it's open season on freddie prize jr . , slamming the young actor as an utterly talentless pretty boy on career cruise control in sound-alike , disposable teen fluff like " head over heels , " " boys and girls , " " down to you " and " she's all that . "  while the prinze oeuvre is hard to defend , his talent is not .  i first saw him in the independent dark comedy " the house of yes , " where he gave a subtle , impressive performance as the younger brother in one of america's freakiest families .  prinze has the acting chops ; he just needs to take a few supporting roles in some grown-up movies to show the non-believers that he has what it takes .   " summer catch " certainly won't help his case .  inoffensive , but utterly generic , the baseball-related romantic comedy does little more than kill time .  the story deals with the love affair between tenley ( jessica biel ) , a wealthy cape cod girl and ryan ( prinze ) , a local boy from a working class family who dreams of becoming a big-time baseball star .  ryan's preoccupation with his new honey-bunny drives her elitist father ( bruce davison ) crazy and endangers his position as pitcher with a cape cod summer league team .  it's a wonder the kid has any time to pitch , as his time is occupied with making out with tenley , fighting with her dad , bonding with his own dad ( fred ward , who deserves better than this ) , fighting with his brother ( jason gedrick ) and carousing at a neighborhood bar with his teammates .  the filmmakers desperately want to make a quirky , character-heavy baseball movie like " bull durham , " but haven't got a clue how to get there .  and so they glide from one clich ? to the next for 108 minutes .  the only bit of originality comes from marc blucas in a minor role as a center-fielder from texas .  in an early barroom scene , blucas , best known as demon-fighting riley finn from " buffy the vampire slayer , " hears a young woman compliment a guy on his ass , then turns to teammate matthew lillard and states , " he does have a nice ass .  a bubble butt . "  when lillard gives him an " are you insane ? "  look , blucas calmly says , " it's nothing sexual , " then goes on to evaluate the hind-ends of some other players , including lillard's .  speaking of asses , prinze does not bare his in the movie .  the actor has a no nudity clause in his contract , so two stunt-butts were employed for a couple of semi-nude shots .  blucas , whose character secretly dates a large woman throughout the story , gets another unique moment late in the film .  sick of hearing teammates make " fat chick " jokes , he climbs on top of a table and loudly declares his love of amply-sized ladies .  while his speech still ends up objectifying women , it remains a nice change of pace in a numbingly ordinary movie .  trivial tidbit : " summer catch " marks a scooby doo summit .  marc blucas appears in " jay and silent bob strike back " as fred from the scooby doo gang , while freddie prinze jr . plays the same character in the upcoming big budget film version of the old cartoon .  
everybody in this film's thinking of alicia .  no , this is not a documentary on those of us after we first saw the " cryin' " video .  this is one of those erotic thrillers , but not like one starring shannon whirry or shannon tweed .  first off , there's zero sex , almost no nudity , and it's not as well-plotted as one of those tweed flicks .  well , anyway .  the " plot . "  alicia plays , well , the babysitter , who is taking care of some kids one night while the parents ( j . t .  walsh and lee garlington ) go out to a party .  the film , trying to be like one of those introspective erotic thrillers , shows every characters' thoughts , except alicia's .  the thing is alicia's in most of them in most cases , and the thoughts aren't too kosher .  first off , there's her boyfriend ( jeremy london , who gave one of the all-time lousy performances in " mallrats , " and is only a notch better here ) , who's a dorky kid who hangs out with a kind of bully , played by nicky katt from " suburbia " ( who shows he's got that quiet creepiness down pat once again ) .  they decide they want to crash her babysitting job , looking for the typical babysitting hanky-panky .  somethine like that .  the film intercuts between the subplots ( alicia babysitting , nicky and jeremy , the party ) and each characters' thoughts .  we get to see jeremy and nicky's dreams of doing a little threeway with alicia , j . t .  thinking of coming home to find alicia naked in the bathtub ( she has it all covered up , the little tease ) , and , worst of all , lee garlington dreaming of that hunk , george segal .  it even shows them in bed together .  yea .  i so wanted to see george and lee garlington in bed , though i guess i'm used to george after seeing her and mary tyler moore fooling around in " flirting with disaster . "  the ending is some kind of big tragedy thing , but come on .  like we care about any of the characters .  the only interesting one is alicia , mainly because she's alicia , and we mostly see her in the fantasies .  so i guess she's some kind of mystery or something .  but she is never explored further .  so , basically , this film is just a series of mastabatory images , sometimes featuring a non-nude alicia ( once again , sadly ) , sometimes featuring a scantily-clad george segal ( once again , sadly ) .  i watched this on one of those free previews of showtime or cinemax one night , and let me tell you , it is the only way to watch this film .  i mean , there's a reason they put these kinds of films on late at night : they're just as good as sleeping pills .  and this one is one big fat waste of time , even for an alicia film .  
star wars : ? episode i -- the phantom menace ( 1999 )  director : george lucas cast : liam neeson , ewan mcgregor , natalie portman , jake lloyd , ian mcdiarmid , samuel l . jackson , oliver ford davies , terence stamp , pernilla august , frank oz , ahmed best , kenny baker , anthony daniels screenplay : george lucas producers : rick mccallum runtime : 131 min .  us distribution : 20th century fox rated pg : mild violence , thematic elements  copyright 1999 nathaniel r . atcheson  a fellow critic once stated his belief that a reviewer should not speak of himself in his own review .  i've attempted to obey this rule in recent months , but to do so would be impossible in this case .  the fact is , nearly every person who goes to see the phantom menace brings baggage in with them .  the original star wars trilogy means so much to so many people .  for me , they calibrated my creativity as a child ; they are masterful , original works of art that mix moving stories with what were astonishing special effects at the time ( and they still hold up pretty darn well ) .  i am too young to have seen star wars in the theater during its original release , but that doesn't make me any less dedicated to it .  on the contrary , the star wars trilogy -- and the empire strikes back in particular -- are three items on a very short list of why i love movies .  when i heard that george lucas would be making the first trilogy in the nine-film series , i got exited .  when i first saw screenshots from the film , well over a year ago , i embarked on a year-long drool of anticipation .  and when the first previews were released last thanksgiving , i was ready to see the film .  but then there was the hype , the insane marketing campaign , and lucasfilm's secretive snobbery over the picture .  in the last weeks before the picture opened , while multitudes of fans waited outside of theaters and stood in the boiling sun days in advance just to be the first ones in the theater , i was tired of hearing about it .  i was tired of seeing cardboard cut-outs of the characters whenever i went to kfc or taco bell .  i just wanted to see the movie .  reader , do not misunderstand .  i did not have an anti-hype reaction .  the hype was unavoidable .  i understand and accept the hype -- it's just what happens when the prequel to the most widely beloved films of all time get released .  five minutes into the phantom menace , i knew there was a problem .   " who are these jedi knights ? "  i asked .   " why are they churning out stale dialogue with machine-gun rapidity ? "   " why aren't these characters being developed before their adventures ? "   " why is there a special effects shot in nearly every frame of the entire film ? "  these were just some of my questions early on .  later , i asked , " where's the magic of the first three films ? "  and " why am i looking at my watch every fifteen minutes ? '  by the end of the film , i was tired , maddened , and depressed .  george lucas has funneled his own wonderful movies into a pointless , mindless , summer blockbuster .  the phantom menace is no star wars film .  take away the title and the jedi talk and the force , and you're left with what is easily one of the most vacuous special effects movies of all time .  it's an embarrassment .  i looked desperately for a scene in which a character is explored , or a new theme is examined , or a special effects shot isn't used .  there are a few of each , but they're all token attempts .  the fact is , george lucas has created what is simultaneously an abysmally bad excuse for a movie and a pretty good showcase for digital effects .  this is not what i wanted to see .  i didn't want to leave the phantom menace with a headache and a bitter taste in my mouth , but i did .  the story centers mostly around qui-gon jinn ( liam neeson , looking lost and confused ) and his apprentice , obi-wan kenobi ( ewan mcgregor , who scarcely has a line in the film ) and their attempts to liberate the people of the planet naboo .  naboo is the victim of a bureaucratic war with the trade federation ; their contact on naboo is queen amidala ( natalie portman ) , the teenage ruler who truly cares for her people .  after picking up jar jar binks ( a completely cgi character , voiced by ahmed best ) , they head to tatooine , where they meet young anakin skywalker ( jake lloyd ) and his mother ( pernilla august ) .  qui-gon knows that the force is strong with young anakin , and so the jedi knights take the boy with them on their journeys .  the bad guys are darth maul and darth sidious , neither of whom have enough lines to register as characters .  there isn't anything particularly wrong with this story when looking at it in synopsis form .  the way lucas has handled it , however , it unsatisfactory .  first of all , we don't learn one single thing about qui-gon jinn .  not one thing .  what was his life like before this film ?  well , i imagine he didn't have one .  that's why he feels like a plot device .  this probably explains why neeson looks so hopeless in the role , and why he's recently retired from film ( i don't blame him , honestly ) .  obi-wan , a character i was really looking forward to learning more about , is even less interesting .  mcgregor has just a few lines , so anyone hoping to see the engaging young actor in a great performance is urged to look elsewhere .  since these two men are the focus of the phantom menace , lucas has served us a big emotional void as the centerpiece of his movie .  things start to pick up when our characters reach tatooine ; young anakin is perhaps the only truly fleshed-out character in the film , and lloyd does a thoughtful job with the role .  i was also hugely impressed with the sand speeder scene ; rarely is an action sequence so fast and so exciting .  and when anakin says goodbye to his mother , i found it moving .  also fairly good is portman , and she manages to give a little depth to a character where no depth has been written .  jar jar binks is one of the most annoying characters i've ever had to endure , but he's more interesting than most of the humans .  as soon as the relatively-brief segment on tatooine is over , it's back to the mind-numbing special effects and depthless action scenes .  i've seen many movies that qualify as " special effects extravaganzas , " but the phantom menace is the first one i've seen that had me sick of the special effects fifteen minutes into the movie .  the reason is obvious : george lucas has no restraint .  i can't say that i didn't find the effects original , because i did -- the final battle between darth maul , obi-wan , and qui-gon is visually exceptional , as is most of the film .  but i also found the effects deadening and tiresome .  my breaking point was near the end of the picture , as anakin is getting questioned by yoda and the other jedi masters ; in the background , we see hundreds of digital spaceships flying around through a digital sky , and i wanted that to go away .  can't we have one stinking scene that isn't bursting at the seems with a special effects shot ?  i got so sick of looking at the cgi characters and spaceships and planets and backgrounds that i really just wanted to go outside and look at a physical landscape for a few hours .  and then there's the question of magic .  what was lost in the sixteen years between the phantom menace and return of the jedi ?  i have a feeling that lucas was so focused on how his movie looked that he forgot entirely the way it should feel .  john williams' familiar score is no help , nor is lucas' direction .  i think it comes right down to characters : there are none here .  i longed for the magnetic presence of han , luke , and leia , but i got no such thing .  and what about the ridiculous expectations ?  mine weren't that high ; i simply wanted a film that showed me the roots of the films that i grew up loving , a story that had a few characters and a few great special effects .  instead , i got two hours and fifteen minutes of a lifeless and imaginative computer graphics show .  i don't hate the phantom menace as much as i resent it : i'd like to forget that it exists , and yet i can't .  it's here to stay .  i can only hope that episodes ii and iii have something of substance in them , because if they don't , then lucas will have pulled off the impossible task of destroying his own indestructible series .  
the lives of older people in the twilight of their years attempting to come to grips with their shared histories and possible futures is a fascinating topic .  finding an all-star cast for such a film is a stroke of genius .  combining all that with a three-time oscar-winning director ( robert benton of " kramer vs .  kramer " ) and creating a decidedly mediocre movie is the stuff of disappointment .  in yet another noir mystery set in hollywood -- how many of these have we seen during the past few years ?  -- the atmosphere is moody , the actors enjoyable to watch and the story goes nowhere .  over-70 harry ross ( paul newman ) is a washed up cop-turned-private eye-turned man friday trying to figure out how to live what remains of his life .  he's screwed up things pretty well ( " i had a wife and daughter .  now , i'm a drunk ) and is at a crossroads .  a couple of years ago , he traveled to mexico to bring back mel ( reese witherspoon ) , the under-age daughter of jack ( gene hackman ) and catherine ( susan sarandon ) ames and now lives with them .  the ames are former movie stars , past their prime and the three have become fast friends .  one gets the impression that ross is just hanging out waiting for something to wake him up .  to fill his time , he does odd jobs for jack and falls in love with catherine .  jack is in even worse shape than harry .  he's dying of cancer with only a year to live .  things do turn more exciting when jack asks harry to drop off a sealed manila envelope for him .  instead of the routine errand that ross expects , he walks into a barrage of bullets from the gun of another ex-cop who is , himself , full of bloody holes .  this unsettling event gives the former detective a project to throw himself into and launches an investigation that revolves around the mysterious disappearance of catherine's first husband 20 years before .  through a series of very complex and convoluted plot devices that involve murder ; blackmail ; guns ; mel's mexico traveling partner and his parole officer ; ross's former cop buddies , ex-lover and would-be sidekick , the tale finally ends up exactly where everyone expects it to .  it's a film noir tradition that the story twists and turns down side roads for an unexpected finale , but here the journey meanders towards an ending that no one cares about .  the only surprises are exactly whose face fits which role in the scenario .  by the time they show you , it doesn't matter .  the storyline gets goofier and goofier exemplified in ross's relationship with rubin ( giancarlo esposito ) , a partner wannabe .  these scenes are obviously designed to be comic relief , however they are neither .  rubin and ross have some past relationship but either it's not explained or i didn't care enough at that point to remember .  a running joke about where harry was supposedly shot while in mexico is probably meant to mirror his questions about whether he is still able to perform .  it's also not funny , doesn't connect and keeps on showing up long after it has run its course .  on the positive side , it's often enjoyable to watch the seasoned actors on the screen .  the three leads all have well-deserved academy awards and turn in accomplished , if not extraordinary jobs .  newman is a grand actor , but doesn't seem quite suited to the dark film style .  he is a bit too clean and understated to come across as desperate and down and out .  hackman , also low-key , is believable but lacks sparkle .  sarandon comes across well as an sultry older babe although she is one-dimensional .  the actors do what they can with lame dialog , but they can't pull the film out of the hole it's dug for itself .  james garner who plays ross's old buddy ex-cop raymond hope is always a treat , but even he half-heartedly struggles through lines like " i'm glad they didn't shoot your pecker off . "  the best part of the film is the look at old friends , how their relationships change over the years and the difficult choices they must make .  the genuinely easy and casual interactions among the actors hint that being on the set was much more interesting than what ended up on the screen  the film doesn't run very long before the audience realizes that it's hopeless .  the only reason for watching is the actors .  it reminds me of disaster movies such as " towering inferno " where the star power is supposed to make everyone ignore the film's problems .  in a better world , there would have been second-rate actors in this second-rate movie and the ones here would have been saved for something better .  of course , we don't live in that better world , but you could make yours a little nicer by choosing a different movie .  
martial arts master steven seagal ( not to mention director ! ) has built a career out of playing an allegedly fictitious martial arts superman who never gets hurt in fights , talks in a hushed tone , and squints at any sign of danger .  he's also the most consistent individual in hollywood today , since all his movies suck .  they basically represent his egotisitical tendencies about his art ( that is , martial art ) .  i'm sure the guy's good , and he seems like a nice guy on talk shows , although a tad haughty , but these movies he makes are all the same : a guy who is basically indestructable , is maybe wounded supposedly mortally , then comes back with a vengeance and goes buddha on all the baddies asses ( although i kinda liked " under siege " ) .  of course , this one , as a change , has a " message " that is drilled into our mind . . . of  course , after he blows up a lot of stuff and kills a bunch of people .  so why do i watch his crap ?  i usually don't .  i will never , and you can hold me to this , i will never pay to see this man's movies , unless , and only unless , he's in a supporting role ( i . e .   " executive decision " ) and i'd definitely pay if he dies ( i . e .   " executive decision " ) .  but this one has a special place in my heart .  this doesn't mean it's good or that i even liked it .  this was the last movie i watched with my deceased uncle , and we had one hell of a time ripping it apart a la " mystery science theatre 3000 , " and this was a couple years before i had heard of " mystery science theatre 3000 . "  in this one , seagal plays a worker for a mining factory set in alaska and run by the greased-up typical shallow villain , this time played by an oscar-winner to give the movie some more clout - michael caine .  it seems that caine wants to do something with his oil factory that includes him dumping oil all over inuit land .  around the 20-30 minute point , seagal speaks up to him in what seems to be the typical speech to all the vain entrepeneurs ( what with his new " fire down below , " another " message film " ) , and caine has him bumped off . . . or  does he ?  seagal is rescued by some inuits , and falls in love with one of them , played by joan chen , who can act , hypothetically , but , for some reason , not here .  one of caine's cliched henchmen ( played here with a lot of overacting by john c . mcginley ) shoots the cheif of the inuit clan , and chen and seagal go on a voyage to take down the oil factory . . . literally ,  of course .  at one point , seagal gives a wonderfully hysterical speech about how he doesn't have any options but blow stuff up .  he even goes as far as to say , " i don't want to kill someone , " and in the same breath , he asks some guy where the arsenal is .  i have no problem with violence .  i'm a huge john woo fan , but he paints his films with suspense , skill , style , depth , characterization , and just plain cool violence .  in the films of seagal , the suspense mainly consists of the baddie attacking him stupidly , and him either wounding or killing them .  at some points , they use the cliche of the talking villain , where the villain has the advantage , can shoot seagal , but begins talking by either telling him his big secret plan , or saying a corny line , to which seagal says something hokey back , and has had enough time to devise of a way to do away with them , and does .  this would be okay if there were any suspense or if it didn't take itself seriously at all , like in the case of this summer's " con air . "  but seagal is serious about his skill , and of course , his message .  i wouldn't mind if this was a message film in the way that they present it to you with evidence .  but seagal has no idea how to present a film where the message is subtle , not pounded into the viewer's mind .  the villain is totally shallow and cartoonish , thus we can't take him and his motives seriously , and while seagal talks about being kind to the environment , he also goes ahead and blows up a square mile of rig , and kills some workers who were just doing his job .  then at the end , he spends a good 10 minutes giving a speech , just in case you didn't get the message from the trailers .  what seagal doesn't realize is that no one takes his films seriously ( although maybe a couple do ) and any message he has is no only redundant , but doesn't comfortably fit in his film , which is filled to the brim with hokey violence , crap suspense , stupid melodrama , and characters who have about as much emotional depth as a petri dish .  as far as seagal and his acting , he's rather boring .  he squints , he kills .  period .  nothing else .  oh , yeah , there's corny one-liners ( " i'm gonna reach out and touch someone ! " ) .  of course , he's the star , and we're supposed to root for him and all , so he makes all the villains unbelievably stupid and a bunch of jerks .  michael caine , who's a great actor , is just supposed to yell and look cold .  he does it well , i guess , but this is no " alfie . "  of coure , no one was expecting that caliber of performance from him .  his big henchman , john c . mcginley is kinda boring as well , but is not horrible .  and we even get a small performance from that god of drill sergeants on celluloid , r . lee ermey ( from " full metal jacket " ) as a hired assasin squad leader who gets to say the obligatory speech about how dangerous seagal is , just for the movie trailers and for seagal's ego .  and also , look for billy bob thornton as one of ermey's assasins .  anyway , to conclude this all , to judge one of seagal's movies is to judge all of them ( except for " under siege " and " executive decision , " though the latter is not really a " seagal movie " ) .  they all have this same formula , they all have the same action , same villain , same plot , but this one has that message , which makes it more excrucitating to watch .  i mean , if you do rent it , and i don't reccomend you do , make sure you just skip the last 10 minutes .  but i have to put it to seagal for creating a film so bad , that the last film i viewed with my uncle was a pleasurable one .  my ( extra star for the fun it is to watch and mock )  
arye cross and courteney cox star as a pair of bostonians who meet in a bar , go to the movies , fall in love , move in together , etc .  review ======  well , if you haven't seen when harry met sally or he said , she said , or if you don't watch love & war on television , you might think this is the most inventive film to come along in ages .  however , if you've seen any of these , than you have seen most of this film .  this of course doesn't mean its bad .  some of it is amusing , but overall , i just had to ask what's the point ?  arye cross is the stereotypical single male who falls in love .  kevin pollack is the stereotypical female-fearing best friend who make a lot of rather sexist and vulgar jokes , most if which weren't very funny .  couteney cox is the stereotypical career-minded woman who falls in love .  julie brown is the stereotypical bizarre best friend of said woman .   ( notice the frequent use of the word stereotypical .  this film uses a lot of formula , the plot is basically known from the opening credits . )  so what is good about the movie ?  well as i said there are a few amusing moments .  surprisingly , julie brown , who i usually find just plain goofy , was the best thing in the film .  also there are several very funny sequences involving analysis of the human mating ritual .  gee , this is really short .  not much to say about the film really .  it is just kind of there .  watching it on video might not be a complete waste of time , but i wouldn't recommend hiring a baby sitter or spending a lot of money to see it at the theatre .  
_soldier_ is hands down one of the worst movies a person could ever have to sit through that doesn't have jean claude van damme in it .  i could liken it to the sci-fi cheese that was the hollywood product-of-choice back in the early 80s , but that would be too much of a compliment .  if there is a movie theater in hell , this film is playing there 24 hours a day .  the story , such that there is , revolves around todd ( kurt russell ) , an automaton of a man who has been raised from birth to be a merciless soldier in a not-too-distant ultra-conservative future ( is there any other kind ? )  after years of desensitization at a military academy full of other boys just like him , todd becomes a ground fighter in a series of wars all over the galaxy .  who the enemies in these wars are is never revealed , but the few glimpses of todd in battle show that it doesn't matter , because innocent hostages are wiped out as indifferently as the bad guys .  after ten minutes of this nihilistic trash -- yes folks , there's more -- we see todd as a buff , scarred adult , now so accustomed to the carnage that no confrontation at all causes him to break a sweat .  there's a new wrinkle , though .  todd and his brethren are declared obsolete , and a new batch of soldiers takes their place .  after losing a sanctioned battle with _dragon_'s jason scott lee , the seemingly dead todd is dumped by a flying ice-cube tray ( well , that's what is looked like ) on a remote garbage planet .  if you predict that todd meets a bunch of outcast settlers on this planet , and that they band together to fight a bunch of bad guys coming to destroy them , you're way ahead of the game .  the renegade society on this trash heap is so clich you half-expect tina turner and master blaster to come strolling into frame any minute .  it's surprising that _soldier_ is the brain-child of _blade runner_ co-writer david webb peoples .  unlike that mind-twisting classic , this film contains just barely enough dialogue to fill about three double-spaced pages .  add into the mix the _mortal kombat_'s paul anderson inept direction , and it's easy to see how _soldier_ turned out so bad .  and the special effects !  remember the flying steam irons in hardware wars ?  gary busey is in this movie .  'nuff said .  _soldier_ is proof that hollywood still has plenty of bad ideas sitting in its script vaults .  that this sad film made it to the silver screen should encourage plenty of aspiring screenwriters out there that there is hope after all .  now if you'll excuse me , i have to go weep for the future .  
it's a sad state of affairs when the back box blurb is more exciting than the movie contained within it .  such is the case for the 1990 paul mayersberg film _the last samurai_ .  though the blurb alludes to " a jungle filled with political intrigue , uneasy alliances , and murderous enemies at every turn , " the story of the movie is actually quite simple ( and prosaic ) : a middle-aged japanese businessman named endo ( played by john fujioka ) and his assistant , both of whom have samurai aspirations , travel to africa in search of his ancestor , who went to bring buddhism to africa .  he hires the services of down-at-the-heels vietnam veteran pilot johnny congo ( the redoubtable lance henriksen ) and his girlfriend ( arabella holzbog ) , and travels to the camp of an arms-merchant-cum-safari-host- cum-islamic-missionary ( john saxon ) and his wife ( lisa eilbacher ) .  they are all kidnapped by an african revolutionary guerilla with witch-doctor aspirations to conceal a pre-arranged arms deal , which subsequently falls through .  congo escapes , finds endo's ancestor's sword , and comes back , guns blazing , to free the rest of them , and endo kills the revolutionary with the sword .  the end .  _the last samurai_ is one of those movies that is neither bad enough nor good enough to be enjoyable .  it is merely _there_ .  the murky plot is filled with subtexts that are never elaborated , subplots that are never explained , and many scenes that make very little sense at all .  the film is shot through with all the tired old " inscrutable japanese samurai " and zen stereotypes that are to be expected from an american movie .  it is quite slow-paced , with only a bit of action near the end , and the final duel between endo and the terrorist is quite anticlimactic .  most of the acting is fair , with the possible exception of congo's girlfriend .  lance henriksen is his usual scene-chewing self , and is one of few possible reasons anyone might conceivably have for seeing this movie .  the only other bright spot is the sweeping african scenery .  i paid $3 for this film , from the discount rack at best buy , and halfway suspect i overpaid for it .  if you are in the mood for samurai , read a clavell novel or watch a kurusawa movie .  skip _the last samurai_ unless you are a die-hard henriksen fan .  
birthdays often cause individuals to access their lives .  are we doing what we want to be doing ?  what happened to our dreams ?  with the new millennium , our collective big birthday , just around the corner , some people are sensing a certain dissatisfaction with their existence .  the old standbys of traditional religion and science aren't doing it for many anymore and they're looking for something else .  we'll be seeing more and more films with a metaphysical theme over the next few years .  ricky hayman ( jeff goldblum ) is having a career crisis .  the programming director for the good buy home shopping network , he's going to be fired unless sales increase dramatically .  new producer kate newell ( kelly preston ) is supposed to whip things into shape .  when the two are fixing a flat , they almost run down new age pilgrim " g " ( murphy ) .  g wanders onto the television set and connects with the viewers by telling them that they don't really want all that commercial crap .  in some unexplained manner , this causes sales to sour .  ricky is saved .  the movie tries to be too much at once and fails at it all .  it's not an over-the-top comedy or a heart-warming message of humanity .  it _is_ a mish-mosh of poorly directed scenes made even worse by insipid dialog .  i am willing to put up with preaching from a film , but the messages here are old hat .  you should take time to smell the roses .  selling your soul for cash is a bad idea .  golly .  i'm glad i saw the movie .  i never would have thought of these .  the opportunity to poke fun at the goofy products is mostly missed .  when g takes a chainsaw to the set , there's an obvious chance for murphy to be hilarious .  it doesn't happen .  the bits are so subdued and overly-long that there's only a hint of laughter from the audience .  murphy has changed his roles in recent years and not for the better .  there are hints of promise in this one .  the only time the film picks up even a little is when his shaved-headed character in the long flowing white caftan shows up on screen .  the others are horrendous .  goldblum has episodes of brilliance in his career , but here he seems to have been replaced with a lifeless pod from his " invasion of the body snatchers " .  his relationship with kate makes no sense .  they move from antagonism to love somewhere off screen .  preston is as uninteresting as she could possibly be .  somewhere hidden deep inside of this film is about ten minutes of value .  an attempt to satirize stupid television , we get a self-parody instead .  
m : i-2 , the sequel to mission impossible , is a james bond wannabe film , but it fails to even come close to that film in wit , humor , and entertainment value .  it tries to be a spy/romance movie , but without any suspense the film just looks like it's an extended commercial for dudes who think they look cool in throwaway sunglasses .  it is a film that prefers techie gadgets to anything human .  the coolest thing about this movie , was all the holes it had in its story and the most trite thing about the movie , was the usage of doves throughout as peace symbols .  the film plays as if it was a wet fantasy dream about techie violence .  except for the choreographed action sequences , the film was dull for three-quarters of its time , filled with too many dead spots in its story to garner concern about its wooden characters or the superficial romance that developed .  as for the action scenes , they might look good to those who are converts to violence in their films , but their advertisement for sadistic responses , is nothing short of mindless cartoon violence , which makes it very difficult to sit back and applaud without feeling put off by the gratuitous cruelty seen .  m : i-2 opens and closes with fast-paced action scenes , but it is hard to get past the middle part which just drags on in banal dialogue .  the film looks as if it had been invaded by a computer virus , at that point .  the only thing that kept me awake , was the horrible music composed by hans zimmer that became very loud at any of the film's supposedly momentous action scenes and seemed to make an uninteresting scene even more noticeable in the wrong way .  it's a mega-buck film adapted from a popular high-tech gadgetry tv series .  but its artistic success is an impossible task to accomplish because it hired the wrong director and actors to star in it , and it failed to produce a story that had any substance .  john woo ( " broken arrow " / " face/off " ) is good at doing car chases , choreographed fights with midair flips and kung-fu kicks , slo-mo shots of two guns blazing , and of fire explosions , but he just can't seem to handle dialogue and suspense .  the star of the film and co-producer , tom cruise , and his romantic interest , thandie newton , are miscast .  cruise is no james bond and looks more like a yuppie than a superhero in his stylish long hair and innocuous smile , as he tries to carry off this macho role , while thandie is not an action-film girl , and seems like a fish- out-of-water in this one .  their romance didn't work , not only was it tepid and not sexy , but it wasn't convincing .  the film opens with dizzying speed , perhaps with the hope that a befuddled audience is its best bet for success .  we will be in three different locations instantaneously : sydney , the american southwest , and seville .  first , we are in sydney , australia , where a scientist with a muffled russian accent , dr . nekhorvich ( rade ) , mentions that he created a deadly killer virus called chimera and an antidote for it .  he also mentions that every hero needs a worthy villain .  which explains the film's mythic theme . . . as  we enter the world of comic book myths on good and evil .  the one who played the villain , dougray scott , does so in a one-dimensional gruff tone , which did not distinguish him in that role .  at least , if the film got the villain part right , it might have had some fun with this nonsense .  soon the diabolical scientist is on a plane talking to someone he trusts called dimitri , but then the plane is taken over by terrorists who set it on automatic pilot and crash it into the rocky mountains .  before they crash the plane and parachute out of it , the one who was posing as dimitri , turns out to be sean ambrose ( scott ) , a rogue member of the imf , which is a cia-like clone .  he steals the package with the antidote , peels off a latex mask , which is a replica of the hero of the story , ethan hunt ( cruise ) , who had posed as dimitri to the scientist before and had thereby gained his trust .  sean and his group of terrorists carry out this attack because they plan a virus plague on the world and then to sell the victims the antidote at marked up prices .  we already saw the gimmick of peeling masks used in face/off and in the original mission impossible , which as convoluted a plot as that film had , it was still a superior film to this sequel .  woo has run this peeling mask routine into the ground , as it is used so often in this film by both sides , so much so , that it blurs any ethical character differences between good guy or villain .  it makes it seem as if anyone could be another character , which distorts the reality of the film and makes it impossible for the film to make much sense .  next we are in a mountain range in the american southwest , and ethan is on vacation , hanging by his fingertips while climbing and looking cool , when a helicopter with his boss anthony hopkins aboard , delivers via a rocket launcher , a pair of talking sunglasses .  hunt learns his next mission is to retrieve the chimera package and he is allowed to pick two regular imf agents to help , billy baird ( john polson ) and luther stickell ( ving rhames ) , with luther running a high-gadget computer , but he also must get a jewel thief named nyah hall ( thandie ) to join his team .  he is told , as an incentive to recruit her , all her criminal charges will be dropped .  hopkins then signs off with the tag line : this message will self-destruct in five seconds .  actually , with the departure of hopkins , it was this disposable film that actually self-destructed at this point .  in seville , hunt recruits nyah into the team in the middle of a jewel heist and a subsequent car chase , where he nearly runs her audi sports car over the side of a mountain road .  he also falls for her when this was only supposed to be a business deal , and learns that she is valuable because her ex-boyfriend was sean ambrose and that he still wants to f * ck her .  the imf team then inject a location tracer chip into her to spot sean so she can go f * ck him , as she leads them to his hide-out in the seaside of australia in which he shares with his sneering villainous cohort , the south african , hugh stamp ( richard roxburgh ) .  robert towne , the screenwriter , who contributed to the first " mission , " who is noted for doing " chinatown " -- writes a colorless , pedestrian script , one that fails even to be funny in a camp way .  the terrorists , who aim to rule the world , are interested in owning 51 percent in a biotech company and in getting stock options , as they plan to infect sydney with the virus and have their company sell the antidote , insuring that they will make billions on the stock .  ethan comes to the rescue of the world and of nyah , with his only conflict being who is more important to save first .  ethan does this rescue against all odds , as he finds a way to penetrate a security tight biotech company , fight it out with sean and the other terrorists , and rescue nyah , who injected herself with the virus to hinder sean's getting it , as the only way to transport the virus is through another person or from the vaccine needle .  ethan rescues her by doing stunt riding on a motorcycle , using kick-boxing , winning a shootout , throwing a full john wayne supply of grenades at the terrorists , making some more use out of that peeling mask bit , and by being completely fearless and larger than life , while he kick's everyone's ass .  if i was only entertained by this . . . i  could have lived with it .  but this film was so badly made , that it was like watching a highlight film of a basketball game , seeing only the slam-dunks , but with the game itself being excluded from the telecast .  in any case , this is a critic-proof film , and will in all probability do well in the box office , as it was made to appeal to all the demographics who find commercial ventures like this one easy to buy into .  
ex-universal soldier luc has to battle a group of newer-model engineered fighters gone bad .  the review  jean-claude van damme has a one-liner early on in universal soldier : the return , his latest attempt to remain relevant , that sums up this entire movie ; he says " been there , done that . "  no film critic could possibly sum up van damme's recent film choices any better .  while other ageing action stars have wisely moved into other film genres ( schwarzenegger makes as many family comedies as he does action films ) , van damme stubbornly persists in sticking with what used to work for him : martial arts and guns .  this unwillingness or perhaps inability to move into new genres has caused van damme to enter the straight to video world , with legionnaire never seeing the inside of a multiplex .  he joins fellow martial artist/action star steven seagal as they watch their film careers rapidly fizzle away .  universal soldier : the return is truly poor .  the plot is a complete copy of several action films from this decade , specifically terminator 2 : judgement day and the similarly named soldier .  soldier's kurt russell was an older model super-soldier sent off to retirement when circumstances forced him to battle his successors , for the good of a planet ; schwarzenegger's terminator in t2 tried to save john connor from a newer model killing machine , the t-1000 ; and jean-claude , a former universal soldier , has to save the planet from the rampage of a group of , you guessed it , newer model soldiers .  considering the poor box office performance of soldier , it's amazing that this project was ever given the go-ahead .  luc devereaux ( van damme ) was the sole remaining universal soldier ( or unisol for short ) , until he was returned to a normal , if muscular , human form .  in this sequel ( technically the fourth film in the series , following two straight-to-video duds that were ignored here plot-wise ) , luc is now a human trainer/consultant of sorts for the unisol program .  working with dylan cotner ( xander berkeley , who interestingly also appeared in t2 ) , the unisol program has engineered a tougher , fiercer fighting force with the help of super-computer seth .  unfortunately , upon hearing that the program has been axed by the government , seth takes control of his soldiers , killing everyone in the building except for luc , his partner maggie , his daughter hillary and erin , a reporter trapped inside .  the rest of the film involves luc trying to keep them all alive , while beating up a group of near-indestructible soldiers , most notably romeo ( popular wrestler goldberg ) .  there are lots of fights , gun battles , lame plot developments and a noticeable lack of plausibility .  there are so many clich ? s in this film that it is almost painful to watch .  luc gets saddled with the task of saving erin the reporter early on , and in the course of a single night , they go from bickering to falling for each other , to kissing .  erin is a pathetically-written character ; people are getting brutally gunned down all around her , and yet , not only does this not seem to frighten her , but she finds time to remind luc that she " isn't leaving without her story " .  whatever .  other laughable moments include a ) luc going to a strip club to get internet access ( what ? ) and b ) a group of rangers , who after having been given good advice ( luc tells them that their weapons are useless , and shows them a specific gun which should work better ) , choose to go into battle with their useless weapons anyway ( guess who wins the battle ? ) .  not one single scene in universal soldier : the return has any originality to it .  when fuelled by don davis' loud , driving music score , the film's many fights become almost passable , but mostly are full of the same ol' jean-claude moves .  director mic rodgers ( a former stunt co-ordinator ) keeps the action coming at a rapid pace , with only a few token serious moments to be found .  his past work is evident in the many moments when characters are thrown through windows , tossed off of buildings or sent flying through the air thanks to an explosion .  if only jean-claude weren't getting so old and slow compared to younger martial arts film actors like jet li , rodgers could probably have made a decent action film .  to place the blame squarely at van damme's feet , however , is an injustice .  i'm not sure that anyone , not even robert deniro or edward norton , could make writers william malone and john fasano's script sound good .  one particularly painful scene is when erin asks luc how he is so sure that the aforementioned strip club will have internet access .  he cringes , looks down and mutters " uh . . . uhm . . .  they all do , i saw it on 60 minutes .  eh he he he " the script's and indeed the entire film's only saving grace is goldberg .  he chews up every scene he is in , obviously enjoying his role immensely .  he even gives the film a few laughs , as he mutters things like " i really don't like that guy " every time he fails to kill luc .  sadly , his presence is not enough to turn universal soldier : the return into anything better than a below-average action film that truly deserves to have joined its fellow sequels by going straight-to-video .  
the plot of big momma's house is martin lawrence in a fat suit and a dress .  that's not just the high-concept premise ; it's the fully-realized , all-encompassing plot .  such an emphasis is not unheard-of in the world of hollywood summer entertainment .  one need merely look back to last summer , when the plot of big daddy was adam sandler being an incompetent surrogate parent .  the trap inherent in such an approach is that the high-concept plot idea better be pretty well-realized , or rest on the shoulders of an extremely talented performer , because you can bet there will be nothing else worth a second of your time -- not a developed character , not a provocative theme , not a witty twist .  you will get 90-plus minutes of martin lawrence in a fat suit and a dress -- nothing more , nothing less .  those who find martin lawrence more than an occasionally amusing screen presence may have a shot at enjoying the one-note dud that is big momma's house .  others will simply stare , mouth agape , at its sheer unapologetic laziness .  lawrence plays fbi agent malcolm turner , an undercover expert on a stakeout assignment with his partner john ( paul giamatti ) .  dangerous convicted bank robber and murderer lester vesco ( terrence howard ) has escaped from prison , and the feds think he's headed for his former girlfriend and presumed-but-never-proved accomplice sherry ( nia long ) .  sherry , however , has fled with her son trent ( jascha washington ) , possibly to visit her grandmother hattie mae ( ella mitchell ) , better known as big momma .  indeed , sherry appears to be on her way , but big momma is headed out of town without knowing sherry is coming .  that leaves master of disguise malcolm to go under very heavy cover as big momma and find out what sherry knows .  big momma's house's bloodlines are certainly traceable to mrs .  doubtfire -- director raja gosnell edited that film , and the makeup effects were similarly created by greg cannom -- but there's just as strong a whiff of tootsie in the main character's attempt to use his alternate identity to get closer to a woman .  unfortunately , big momma's house makes a ridiculous decision neither of those other films made : instead of having the protagonist pose as a completely manufactured character unfamiliar to anyone elses , it places malcolm in the position of playing a friend and family member to several other characters .  suspension of disbelief in big momma's house requires you to believe every other person in the film is blind and/or stupid , since no one notices that one big momma looks or sounds absolutely nothing like the other .  of course , laughs trumps logic every time , and big momma's house probably still would have worked in spite of its utter disdain for common sense if it had just managed to be funny .  and it misses its best possible opportunity for some great farce by ignoring the simple fact that the real big momma is set up as a foul-tempered beast , while malcolm has to be nurturing in order to get the information he wants out of sherry .  unfortunately , no one involved appears to have the faintest idea how to deal with the comic gold mine involved in one real person pretending to be another , very different real person , so they fall back on an endless parade of sight gags : malcolm reacting violently to big momma's explosive diarrhea attack ; malcolm-as-momma schooling a pair of cocky teens in basketball ; malcolm trying to avoid detection as various prostheses give way at inopportune moments ; malcolm delivering a baby because big momma is the town midwife ( one of the few sequences that works ) .  martin lawrence can be likeable enough at times , but there's no reason to care a whit about his budding romance with sherry because malcolm is never an independently significant character .  he's just big momma without the makeup on .  i won't waste time commenting on how ineptly the set-up of the escaped convict is employed , since it was clearly a waste of time to the film-makers .  there are a few token scenes of lester looming as a threatening figure , but he's ultimately a distraction in a film that's really about its central visual incongruity ( and the accompanying lascivious glances at nia long's posterior ) .  i'm never prepared to underestimate how appealing that idea may be to other people -- several million of them apparently found adam sandler as an incompetent surrogate parent appealing -- but i know that when a film-maker tries to throw a concept at me and pretend that it's an entire film , i duck out of the way .  the gross implausibility of big momma's house might have been tolerable if it was seasoned with more big , cleverly-constructed laughs .  its lack of big laughs might have been tolerable if its characters were at all relevant .  big momma's house is ridiculous _and_ not funny .  it's just a sad exercise in the jaded presumption that any scene should be considered wacky and hilarious if it involves martin lawrence in a fat suit and a dress .  
starring william baldwin ; cindy crawford & steven berkoff all right , the first problem that fair game has is the casting of supermodel cindy crawford in the lead role .  not that cindy does that bad , it's just that anyone who watches this film knows from moment one that that little bit of casting was not done because of cindy's extraordinary acting skills , but for her extraordinary ability to look drop dead gorgeous in any situation .  and in fair game most situations tend to find cindy either soaking wet or very hot and sweaty , but i'm sure that that is just a coincidence , no doubt that these situations were essential to the plot and the fact that cindy looks great wet , well , that's just a happy coincidence .  sure .  william baldwin isn't a bad actor .  unfortunately , he just doesn't demonstrate it at all in this movie .  i'm not sure if that's because most of his lines were just so hokey , or if he was trying to make cindy's acting look good .  if it was the latter , it worked .  cindy does a surprisingly good job here in her first movie .  which is not to say that she doesn't have room for improvement .  although to be fair to cindy , her lines were kinda cheesy in places .  so right about now you are no doubt asking yourself what sort of movie does cindy crawford , arguably the most beautiful woman on the planet , chose for her foray into the world of cinema ?  well , i'm glad you asked that question .  cindy plays a lawyer who by some convoluted plot twists becomes a target for former elite kgb agents .  why woud they target someone as likable as cindy , you ask ?  by the end of the movie you won't care .  the story is so contrived it isn't funny .  anyway after cindy gets blown out of the window of her house , without getting so much as a scratch i might add , she is placed into protective police custody under the watchful eve of william baldwin .  who's character , max kilpatric , a police detective , seems to possess the skills of some sort of fighting machine ( my guess is that the writers have seen way too many of steven seagal's early films ) .  the point is that the idea of the crawford and baldwin's characters of the run from these killer russians isn't all that bad of an idea , it's just everything around that basic idea which kinda stinks out loud .  the supporting cast members are nothing more that over acted stereotypes .  if i was baldwin , i'd hope this film disappears .  as for crawford , she may indeed have some acting ability .  unfortunately , any she does have is obscured by writing that goes beyond bad .  this movie was obviously written with cindy in mind , since the writers spend most of their time finding ways to capitalize off of her looks .  it's too bad they hadn't spent more time on a half decent plot , since ms . crawford is more than capable of looking just fine all by herself thank you very much .  unless you are a huge fan of either baldwin or crawford this is a movie that will only disappoint you .  
take a look at the following equation . . . .  a christmas carol+ghostbusters=scrooged  yes , scrooged is the odd mixture of sentiment , comedy and horror you would get if you mixed those two elements toghether .  scrooged is alternatively sick , gross , funny , and then sickly soppy .  bill murray plays frank cross , a t . v executive with a horrible personality .  he's evil to secretary , actors , crew , everyone , except the t . v's station's boss , of course ( played by the late robert mitchum ) however , he is then visited by a very dead exec , who warns cross that he will be visited by three ghosts , past , present and future ( who is called the ghost of yet to come , for some reason ) sure enough , they arrive , show cross how much of a s . o . b he is , and he changes his way .  however , throughout this simple plot , we've got to suffer outlandish special effects , poor comedy , and an very , very mean performance from bill murray .  frank cross isn't 'funny' mean , he's just mean .  he also isn't very good at emotional scenes , and totally destroys the last ten minutes of the film , with an utterly desperate speech saying how great christmas is , and how he has changed .  however , the supporting cast are ok , with good performances from mitchum , allen ( who plays his girlfriend ) and john glover ( who plays cross's 'partner' ) the ghost of christmas past isn't that bad either .  sadly , though , the audience has to suffer 25 minutes of 'home alone' style violence from the ghost of christmas present , played by carol kane .  whoever thought smacking that kane smacking murray in the head with a toaster was funny , should be fired straight away .  and the audience also has to suffer bobcat goldthwait ( the guy with the annoying voice in police academy 3 , if i remeber correctly . . . . )  who , thankfully , dosen't say much .  the script is horrendous .  michael o'donaghue churns out terrible , bad taste jokes ( which i guess is the whole point really ) then changes direction completely to emotional scenes .  and he must of been on some drug when he wrote the final ten minutes , which are awful .  the special effects look nice , but do nothing for the film .  there's some impressive make up effects also .  the music is also good , which is scored by danny elfman .  but great effects and make up don't make a great film .  scrooged is an appaling attempt to inject some christmas spirit into the audience , seeing as the first 1 hour 20 minutes of the film are so depressing anyway , and the last ten minutes had to make up for it with an godawful speech .  why didn't cross just look out his exec window , and ask a young boy to buy a goose for him ?  overall , then , you'd have a much better christmas if you avoid this film like something that should be avoided ( perhaps a plague )  
synopsis : a maniac , crazed by virulent microphage , slaughters more than twenty people , including a street gang and heavily-armed troops , with a small knife .  even with a handgun , however , he can't take out the two cops who are after him , despite having shot one of them a total of seven times .  comments : the most notable aspect of adrenalin : fear the rush is that it marks a striking career move for natasha henstridge .  not only does she manage to keep all her clothes on ( her trademark in earlier films such as species and maximum risk was to strip naked as often as possible ) , but she actually puts on even more clothes as the film progresses .  this will probably disappoint many henstridge fans , but i welcome the change because henstridge is an attractive , capable actress who deserves less exploitative roles ( though , i admit , it doesn't show in this mess ) .  henstridge , just like every other actor in the film , delivers a wooden performance in this monumental turkey .   ( the cast also includes christopher lambert , who has appeared in the highlander and mortal kombat films . )  how on earth this movie got two big-name stars to appear in it is beyond me .  adrenalin : fear the rush is set in boston ten years in the future ( 2007 ) .  boston has changed dramatically in those ten years .  it is now home to a bunch of interred foreigners and policed by cops who drive around in small cars with " policia " printed on their doors .  some guy has a really bad virus , and he's killing people because of it .  so , the brave good guys ( lambert and henstridge ) go after him .  that's it .  76 minutes never seemed so long .  this is a drawn-out chase scene through dimly-lit abandoned buildings turned into an entire movie .  the plot development is nil ; we learn absolutely nothing about lambert's character and very little about henstridge's character .  the dialogue is littered with unnecessary obscenities and concerns mindnumbingly idiotic arguments over who will go down the next dark corridor/tunnel/airduct next and who will carry the flashlight .  a subplot does exist involving henstridge's character's illegal attempt to get her son out of boston .  in her opening monologue , a monologue which sounds as though henstridge was reading from cue cards , we learn that she has gone to great lengths to secure a fake passport for her son .  twenty minutes into the film , i wondered if the movie would have been better if it focused on this plot .  in a defining scene of the movie , however , i changed my mind .  this fake passport drops to the ground .  lambert's cop immediately recognizes it as a fraud from six feet away .  must not have been a good fake .  this emphasizes another fault with the film .  things just defy common sense .  lambert's cop , for instance , is shot seven times , yet he is still able to talk and slide about .  adrenalin : fear the rush ends in a trite manner that doesn't seem to even fit the mood that the filmmakers were trying for .  i found myself rather bored with this film , which will disappoint both sci-fi/horror fans and fans of henstridge and lambert .  don't fear the rush .  fear the movie .  watch something else .  
post-chasing amy , a slew of love-triangle movies : this month we have kissing a fool , co-starring amy's own lee , and april brings us the object of my affection , which may as well be titled chasing allan , for it is the story of a woman who falls in love with her gay roommate .   ( to be absolutely six degrees of kevin bacon about it , that film stars schwimmer's friend jennifer aniston . )  if only kevin smith could write them all . . .  schwimmer stars as womanizing chicago sportscaster max , who falls in love with his best friend jay ( lee ) 's book editor samantha ( avital ) a mere twenty-four hours after meeting her .  they are soon engaged , and max , because of his own raging libido , grows suspicious of samantha's fidelity .  he convinces jay to flirt with samantha during the development of his book , to " test her " .  the trouble is , jay might be secretly in love with her .  to stretch this flat , sitcom premise to feature length , the plot is framed by a climactic wedding , at which bonnie hunt recounts the triangular tale--the events leading up to the nuptials--to an annoying fat man and his silly girlfriend .  hunt has the best comic timing of anyone in the film ; schwimmer can spin bad dialogue into mildly humorous dialogue ; and lee , poor lee , is miscast .  so hysterically funny in chasing amy , here he is forced to repress his comic instincts : to swear , to yell , to talk about oral sex . . .  the script's idea of a character trait is to stress that jay is a " sensitive man " , and then show him drinking pepto bismol when he's stewing over his girl trouble .  as for avital , an israeli actress , she is warm and sweet , but we don't know anything about her character other than that it takes her an incredibly long time to realize the most obvious things .  she also too closely resembles the stunningly beautiful kari wuhrer , who plays schwimmer's assistant and personal temptress , turning that particular subplot into an unintentional riff on vertigo .  there are a handful , a smattering , of good scenes in kissing a fool .  i enjoyed a moment in a comedy club , during which jay gets up and asks " has anyone here ever hated their girlfriend so much you wanted to kill her ? "  over and over until he's booted off stage .  there are also a few obviously improvised lines that are fresher than anything that's on the page .  kissing a fool is never as clever as the thursday night joke-machine friends that spawned schwimmer's movie career , so save yourself eight dollars and watch three episodes of that series back to back .  
yet another brainless teen flick , this one is about , surprise , drugs and sex .  stars katie holmes and sarah polly couldn't look more bored .  their characters are cardboard cut-outs of every cliched teenager out there .  one thing you need to know is i really hated this movie .  everything about it annoyed the hell out of me .  the acting , and script , the plot , and ending .  the director ( of the fluke hit swingers ) could have very well directed a bunch of no-name actors and had a watchabe film .  the " big " stars of go pretty much drown the project of any originality .  i felt like i was watching dawson's creek episode 200 .  although the film still would have stayed at red despite its cast .  the " surprise " ending was sooo predictable .  since when is a male character's sudden outing of the closet considered a surprise in hollywood anymore ? ?  go is dawson's creek + varsity blues - she's all that = go home and watch something else .  
set in harlem during the great depression , rival gangster " families " go to war over control of " the numbers " , an illegal gambling lottery .   " runners " take bets from potential lottery winners and deliver them to private locations for drawings .  the undisputed leader of the harlem numbers is the madame queen ( cicely tyson ) who is challenged by dutch schulz ( tim roth ) , a ruthless hoodlum .  by turning against the queen , dutch defies his partner , the infamous lucky luciano ( andy garcia ) , who wishes to respect the queen and keep the peace .  the queens' army strengthens when an acquaintance , ellsworth " bumpy " johnson ( lawrence fishburne ) is released from prison and becomes a bodyguard for her .  he proves himself worthy in short time as he thwarts an assassination attempt ( on himself and the queen ) , and later takes control of the queens army when she is jailed for tax evasion .  bumpy's reign is not as restrained and subdued as the queen and he declares all out war on dutch .  bloody gang warfare ensues .  bumpy faces many obstacles during his reign .  his new army questions his methods .  his girlfriend ( vanessa l . williams ) and the queen disagree with his violent solutions .  most importantly ( in his eyes ) , dutch has become a more formidable foe than he imagined , and seeks help from lucky luciano to assassinate him .  there have been so many movies dealing with organized crime that it must be hard to write an original story dealing with it .  this movie is not original at all .  in fact , i was angered by how many similarities there was between this film and , arguably , the best gangster movie of all time , the godfather .  if you are going to borrow ideas from another movie and not give credit , why not borrow from a lesser known movie ( say , millers crossing ? ) .  how could the credited screenwriter chris brancato not give credit to mario puzo himself ?  here are just some of the major similarities ( i stopped counting at 10 ) .  crooked cop assaults blood relative of the leader .  gang extracts revenge on crooked cop .  wife ( or girlfriend ) questions her partners' murderous activities and leaves him .  high ranking " officer " betrays the leader .  blood relative of the leader murdered .  war erupting between the " families " .  high-ranking officer disapproves of the leader in front of other family members .  new leader runs family differently from previous leader .  large meeting with all families involved .  the setup in this movie is done rather well .  i enjoyed the portrayal of the network of " runners " sprinting through the streets collecting bets for the queens lottery .  this was the way of life in harlem , and most people involved with the queen did so because it was the only way to support their families and put food on the table .  number running was the only way for the harlem population to find work .  i also enjoyed the interaction between the angry , violent dutch and the calm , patient lucky .  after about the 30-40 minute mark all of the similarities with the godfather start appearing , one after the other ( and in short order ) .  it was a huge distraction , and an insult to my intelligence .  who was the screenwriter kidding here ?  some of the individual performances were well done .  andy garcia was very convincing as lucky , unfortunately his screen time is reduced to a supporting role .  tim roth effectively plays the cocky villain , much like his roles in " the cook , the thief , his wife and her lover " and " rob roy " .  the good performances and convincing setup during the first third of the movie do not make up for the lackluster story that follows .  a couple of coincidences is one thing , over a dozen is an insult .  directed by bill duke  ellsworth bumpy johnson . . . . . . . lawrence  fishburne dutch schultz . . . . . . . . . . . . tim  roth lucky luciano . . . . . . . . . . andy  garcia the queen . . . . . . . . . . . . . cicely tyson francine hughes . . . . . . . . . . vanessa  l . williams illinois gordon . . . . . . . . . . chi  mcbride  written by randy turgeon , january 22 , 1998  
at first glance , i thought that the sword and the sorceror had promise .  its plotline goes like this : the evil king cromwell , desiring to take over the world , resurrects an evil , ancient sorceror , xusia for power .  he attacks the kingdom of eh-dan and kills young prince talon's parents .  given a triple-bladed sword ( which can shoot bad guys , like a gun ) by his dying father , talon vows for revenge .  eleven years later , when he's established his own army , the mercaneries , he vows to take back his kingdom .  along the way , he meets up with alana , whose village is attacked by drunken guards and her brother is kidnapped by cromwell .  talon vows to help , and , after a series of minor escapades , eventually ends up rescuing alana's brother ( and several other prisoners ) , only to be captured himself ( in other words , put on a cross to be crucified ! ) .  fortunately he frees himself , rescues alana from marrying cromwell , defeats xusia , and then cromwell , all with his triple bladed sword ( during the final battle , the blade breaks , but talon finishes cromwell off by using a hidden dagger in the blade ) .  then , everything ends happily .  unfortunately , the sword and the sorcerer is not even half as good as it sounds .  what would have been a great film is completely destroyed by uneven plot jumping , bad acting , and gruesomely gory , bloody scenes .  never once does the story seem to connect together , it just jumps around repeatedly .  this problem is extremely noticeable in the opening scene where cromwell resurrects xusia .  after telling him that he needs his help , he leads the warlock out into daylight , but then stabs him and sends him careening off a cliff afterwards .  wait a minute , didn't the plotline say that he needs the help of xusia in order to invade eh-dan , which he cannot do by military force ?  if that is the case , why does he dispose of xusia after resurrecting him ?  and why does he manage to take over eh-dan anyway ?  these questions are just never - no , never - answered in the film .  another example is that one moment we see talon fighting for his life , another moment we see him just about to be crucified during alana's wedding to cromwell ( ! ) , and finally at the end , instead of settling down with alana , he just tells her to " wait " , and then he just rides off !  in addition to the extremely bloody scenes , this uneven plot jumping completely destroys what would have been a great fantasy adventure .  even some attempts to make it exciting , a few fire scenes , battle scenes , don't work .  it just completely fails altogether miserably .  the only good thing about this film is its musical score , contributed by david whittaker , who had an ( extremely ) short music composing career .  the score is boomy and adventurous , powerful , and a billion times better than this film is .  my suggestion : steer the hell away from this bloody mess and buy the soundtrack album instead ( if you can find it ) .  ironically , though , before the film's credits roll , there is a message indicating that a sequel , tales of the ancient empire , would follow .  to my relief ( and delight ) , it never got into production , because the sword and the sorcerer laid an egg at the box office , grossing only $39 million .  critics were right on in slamming the sword and the sorcerer , all right .  leonard maltin rightfully called it " second rate in scripting , and acting " and at-a-glance film reviews called it " a confusing , stupid , unimaginative , unengaging , bloodfilled bore " .  i totally agree with these reviews , all right , and i hope that this piece of #$% !  will be forgotten about .  there are far better fantasy movies than the sword and the sorcerer .  i hope you get a good laugh out of this review , but i am not laughing .  in fact , my insults don't even come close to the gruesome sickness that this film gave me throughout its 100 minute running time .  
this movie stinks !  although it is professionally crafted and there are some decent performances , the plot is so bad it drags the film into the abyss .  i knew i was in for trouble when , during the opening establishment shots , we see a detailed close-up of warrant officer paul brenner's ( john travolta ) military identification card and it is the wrong color .  this might seem like a minor detail , but anyone who has spent anytime with the military knows that active duty identification cards are green and dependant cards are yellow .  and what about the senior military officer whose uniform shirt is so wrinkled he looks like he is a recruit on his first day of training .  or what about when brenner tells a suspect that , because he is in the military , he doesn't have the right not to answer his questions even though these rights were central to military law well before the miranda decision .  how hard is it to get someone familiar with the military to check these facts ?  now details like this could be overlooked if the underlying story held up , but this story is so full of holes it is painful to sit through .  for example , at the beginning of the film , paul brenner , an undercover army investigator , gets into a gun and knife battle at his off-post houseboat and winds-up killing an arms dealer he had been investigating .  the local police investigating the death are openly hostile to the military and they discover that brenner has been lying to them about the killing .  but instead of arresting him , or at least take him into custody for further questioning , they release him .  duh !  ultimately , brenner gets assigned to investigate the murder and possible rape of the commanding general's daughter , a young captain also assigned to the post .  when brenner finds graphic sex tapes featuring the general's daughter , does he use them to generate a suspect list and begin grilling suspects .  no , his instinct is to suppress them because they might be potentially embarrassing .  eventually , brenner discovers that this murder is related to a violent gang rape at west point eight years earlier .  i won't even go into the totally unbelievable rationale for the army's suppression of this horrendous crime .  i will just mention one final flaw .  brenner is investigating a crime that occurred in georgia .  the rape occurred in west point , which is in new york .  he is under a very tight ( and totally implausible ) 36-hour deadline to solve this case .  he needs to discuss the rape with a psychiatrist at west point .  does he phone the doctor ?  no , he travels ( via some unexplained very fast transport ) to new york to question the psychiatrist in person , and then he returns to georgia ( again by the miracle transport ) , without once worrying about the impact any of this will have on his deadline .  you have been warned , stay away from this one .  
 " it was not scary . "  these are the first words that came to mind after it was over .  when a movie is called _vampires_ , " not scary " aren't words that should be associated with it .  but that wasn't my only gripe .  john carpenter is a name associated with cutting-edge cinema , as in the intense scares of _halloween_ , _the thing_ and _the prince of darkness_ , or the offbeat action of _they live_ and _escape from new york_ .  unfortunately , the only thing that is cutting edge about _vampires_ is the level of boredom the movie is able to reach .  with an anemic plot and not-quite-kosher special effects , _john carpenter's vampires_ has barely enough substance to slake the thirst of even the least discerning genre fan .  the film is at first concerned with a group of roaming vampire slayers , led by james woods , of all people .  like some sort of holy a-team ( they even have their own souped-up van ) , the bunch invade and wipe out a nest of vampires in a new mexico shack .  their method is amusingly innovative : the blood-suckers are reeled out with harpoons so they can flare up in the sun like matchsticks .  to commemorate their victory , the loutish band decorates a motel room with hookers and parties the night away .  their celebration is short-lived , however , as a master vampire named valek ambushes and single-handedly destroys most of the team .  woods' jack crow and buddy montoya ( daniel baldwin ) escape with their lives , along with a woman named katrina ( sheryl lee ) .  although the woman has been bitten , montoya and crow decide to keep katrina for her psychic link to the master vampire .  the rest of the movie is concerned with the boys' hunt for valek ( thomas ian griffith ) , a freaky marilyn manson-type who's on a mission that dates back 600 years .  along the way they pick up a priest named guiteau ( tim guinee ) , a character who serves pretty much the same purpose as the jittery cpl .  upham in _saving private ryan_ .  some stuff happens in the middle of the movie , but i can't remember most of it , because i often found a twitching hair in the corner of the frame more interesting than what was happening on screen .  _vampires_ finally starts to pick up about 90 minutes into the mix , as crow , guiteau , and montoya assault an abandoned prison-turned vampire nest .  only then does the film begin to even resemble a carpenter flick .  but it's too little too late .  we get the inevitable final confrontation , but it seems tacked on and rather anti-climactic ( come on , we're dealing with _the_ master vampire here ! )  interestingly , last summer's vampire actioner _blade_ was derived from a comic book , and _vampires_ from a novel , yet the latter seems more steeped in campy cheesiness than the former , a more deliberate superhero flick .  woods' jack crow spouts glib off-the-cuff one-liners and strolls away from exploding buildings with that oh-so-cool stride .  and his motive for killing vampires ?  take a wild guess .   ( hint : a ______ killed his _____ when he was just a _____ . )  at least _blade_ had decent action and slick stylishness .  _vampires_ lacks even cheap thrills to mask its gossamer-thin plot .  to make up for this , the movie resorts to other " shocks , " such as its generally condescending attitude towards women ( crow slaps them around for the fun of it ) and an overplayed contempt for religion ( crow teases guiteau incessantly about whether his vow of celibacy has made him prone to " getting woodies . " )  it can be argued that maybe i wanted too much from this movie .  if not scary and gory , i wanted tense , relentless , and exhausting .  _john carpenter's vampires_ is none of these .  i can only recommended it for the hardcore carpenter fan .  for the rest of you looking for a good scare , beware : _vampires_ is a film with no teeth .  
perhaps best remembered as the recently departed news anchor on saturday night live who always started the segment with " . . . this is the fake news , " norm macdonald , at times , could elicit some laughter by blurting out semi-offensive phrases in his raspy voice , coated with a condescending attitude .  his shtick was marked by crassness .  in this movie , for example , when his girlfriend says that she's kicking him out because he's been fired from 14 different jobs over the last 3 months , he tries to calm the situation by saying , " maybe you'll feel better after we have some dirty sex . "  this kind of humor can only go so far , but certainly can't go the distance in a full-length feature .   " dirty work " , is nothing more than a sophomoric comedy about two best friends who grow up only physically .  emotionally , they've never outgrown their pubescent years , which is somewhat amusingly explored in a beginning flashback .  although having no apparent real world skills , the one thing that these two have always been adept at is getting back at people .  if the meter maid was unjust in giving you a ticket , then dump a bunch of unpopped kernels of corn onto the engine block and watch the car burst apart .  mitch ( norm macdonald ) and sam ( artie lange ) need to come up with $50 , 000 in a period of two weeks so that sam's dad ( jack warden ) can have a heart operation .  their idea is to start a revenge-for-hire business where they'll do your dirty work .  in the funniest scene ( and possibly the only funny scene ) of the movie , they take advantage of a live television shoot at a nearby used car lot .  their presence is established , but when a less-than-honorable real estate developer hires them and then reneges on the payment , the two go to work to exact their sordid brand of revenge .  by default , dirty work should treat us to some outrageous revenge plots , but it delivers jerky boys level material .  except for the bit at the used car lot ( and possibly another episode that involves frat brothers ) , the dirty work is uninspired and becomes about as funny as a prank phone call .  already weak on material , it further spirals itself towards the video store by having jack warden constantly blurt out that he has an unsatisfied libido and needs 'broads' and also includes a very unfunny chevy chase as a bumbling doctor with a gambling addiction .  but what's really painfully evident is that norm macdonald has no versatility as an actor .  relying on his trademark of speaking into his personal recorder and saying " note to self " ( " note to self : learn to fight , " he says after getting beat up ; " note to self : there's always beer , " he says after hitting rock bottom ; etc . ) , we feel like we're just watching an elongated rehash of his not-so-glorious days on saturday night live .  much like the television show , for 90 minutes we get one or two funny bits .  the rest of the story is just dead space .  
summer movies are , by nature , dumb affairs that are usually made for some quick enjoyment and to make money .  wild wild west , the latest will smith affair , follows much the same formula , except that it is dumber and less enjoying than most summer movies .  will smith plays jim west , a black sheriff with a nice line in sunglasses .  he is called by president grant ( kline ) to go on a mission to find out why top government scientists are disappearing .  west is paired up with scientist artemus gordon ( kline again ) and the two track the missing scientists to a legless mastermind , named dr . loveless ( branagh , with a zany moustache . )  before i pile on with the many negatives in this sorry affair , i'll give it a chance with the positives .  there's a nice credit sequence , the production design by bo welch is pleasing to the eye , and the special effects are decent enough .  there's also a pleasant soundtrack .  buried deep in the dross are one or two amusing jokes .  and salma hayek pops up as the female interest , which is always nice to see .  apart from these factors , though , nothing else in wild wild west works .  firstly , there's little chemistry between smith and kline , who appears to be in it purely for the money .  one would expect zingers passing between the two : none arise .  both of them plod through the below standard plot , knowing that there is a pay cheque waiting at the end .  not even kenneth branagh provides much entertainment : although he is over the top , the material doesn't present much opportunity for branagh to be truly crazy .  therefore , he just comes across as loud as obnoxious .  the only enjoyable performance comes from the sexy salma hayek , who is given so little screen time it's embarrassing .  she appears to be in the film to merely show off her body , and be ogled at by kline and smith .  her character also changes at a whim to fit the mechanics of the script , and there is no sense of realism about the character .  the 'humour' in the film is also very off .  will smith put a little spin to his daft lines in men in black , here , not even smith could save the humour on display .  the script largely boils down to insults that aren't very funny , and one-liners that barely raise a smirk .  it's also somewhat racist , although it doesn't intend to be , with one scene with jim west trying to wisecrack his way out of a lynching , and actually says slavery is good to save himself .  it's not a funny scene , and the whole thing comes off rather uncomfortably .  the film also makes the tragic mistake that a man ( in this case kline ) in a dress is automatically unfunny , it isn't , but the wild wild west makes this joke even more painful to watch through pure ineptness .  there's also problems with the plot .  jim west and artemus gordon get caught up in all kinds of sticky situations , but the way they get out of them are always unsatisfying , and rely purely on luck , rather than audience pleasing skill .  plot elements are introduced into the film , and then thrown away just as quickly .  the main piece of the story , a 80 foot mechanical , steam driven spider devised by loveless looks rather impressive , but there's no particular reason why it should be built .  why not loveless build a great big tank , instead of an ungainly , fragile piece of machinery that's just begging to be blown up ?  director barry sonnenfeld always has a breezy look to them , with some nice camera tricks , but even this is missing from this stilted affair .  wild wild west could have benefited from sonnenfelds whacked out style of directing , but not much of it is evident , making this film drag out even more .  it's a sad thing when _four_ ( credited ) screenwriters , a talented director and a willing star can't make a film work , and eventually wild wild west collapses under it's sexist , mildly racist , unfunny weight .  
what were they thinking ?  nostalgia for the seventies is bad enough , but do we really need an eighties film ?  robbie hart ( adam sandler ) used to want to be a rock and roll star , but in 1985 he's singing at weddings and having a good time .  a romantic at heart , he loves weddings and is just about to get married to his high-school sweetie .  when she leaves him waiting at the altar , his tune changes to " love stinks " .  he meets waitress julia ( drew barrymore ) who is engaged to a junk-bonds salesman and you know that they are going to get together .  in fact you know everything that is going to happen during this movie .  sandler is somewhat adequate in his leading man role , but there is no spark .  barrymore doesn't seem to be able to convey anything other than a pretty face with nothing behind it : beauty but no attitude .  both characters are just there .  bit parts by steve buscemi and jon lovitz steal the show .  the eighties are shoved in our face .  references to deloreans , madonna , " dallas " , ivana and donald , burt and loni and " miami vice " get old fast .  the filmmakers must have realized that there wasn't much entertainment to the story and thought they could dazzle the audience with humorous period allusions .  they're not funny and it doesn't work .  with change on all fronts accelerating more and more , nostalgia appears to have a great appeal , but don't you think we could have more than 14 years before we yearn for the past .  maybe we can look forward to a film next year waxing nostalgically about el nino .   ( michael redman has written this column for over 23 years and he knows that nostalgia is not what it used to be . )  
and just when you thought joblo was getting a little soft around the corners , not rating anything lower than your standard " this movie sucks " , along comes this cinematic atrocity and he's forced to take out his secret weapon and spray it with a stench so thick , even the bravest movie-goer would think twice about seeing this waste of time .  yes , despite being a third sequel to a successful original movie , the latest highlander doesn't seem to have anything going for it .  oh stinky movie , let me count thee ways . . .  plot : ( from what i understood ) a really bad highlander dude comes to the present looking to whack out the nice highlander dudes in order to gain their power and become the mightiest immortal . . . or  something along those lines .  critique : a complete and utter mess .  disjointed , incoherent , boring , corny , filled with bad dialogue . . . and  that's just the first thirty minutes !  this film doesn't seem to know what to do with itself .  it's confusing to anyone who doesn't know the series ( i include myself in that group ) and apparently idiotic to those who do know the series ( i include die-hard highlander fan the arrow in that group ) .  the film doesn't explain anything about itself . . . it  just goes from one inexplicable situation to another .  one moment they're in the present time , the next moment , they're in italy in the 1600s .  why ?  who knows .  what are they talking about ?  no idea .  flashbacks mixed in with the present , mixed in with a few spontaneously cheesy fight sequences every now and again , and i even remember seeing one flashback scene which went even further into its own flashback scene ! !  hullo . . . ? ! ?  confused yet ?  i was and i basically stopped giving a crap about anyone in the film when i realized that neither the writer or director was interested in presenting me with any kind of semblance of a story .  random swordplay , mad max-like dudes showing up in motorcycles in the 1800s ?  or were they in the present at that time ?  who knows . . . and to be honest . . . who  seriously cares !  this series should have been shot in the head and put out of its own misery a long time ago , but sadly , someone at the studio decided that it still had a little life left in it .  please , please . . . for the love of god and all that is holy in the world of movie-making , and mostly out of respect for those who loved the original film , put this series to bed and end it !  even christopher lambert knew enough to play second fiddle to adrian paul in this one .  the director also tries to do the best he can with the muddled material , but all he could come up with is plenty of slo-mo action , some fast-motion fight scenes and lots of smoke everywhere .  and is there anything spectacular about the sword-play or fight scenes ?  nope .  and i think we all could have done without all those zooming lambert face close-ups . . . yipes ,  the man is not aging gracefully , is he ?  oh boy , and i haven't even gotten around to the greatest piece of over-acting that i've seen in years .  the man who plays kell in this movie , bruce payne , should get a ham trophy for literally chewing up every piece of scenery that he gets near .  overacting is not a hobby for this guy . . . it's  a living !  he's also very funny , not purposely though .  all in all , the movie stinks .  nuff said .  
`bats' is an insulting slap across the face for any dedicated horror movie fan .  to pull something like this off , you need to have a sense of wit and style , with a heavy dosage of humor to back up the process if the fright factor ever declines .  something like the underground worm thriller `tremors' had just the perfect mixture of these elements , and in return , the film was tremendous fun .  with the notable exception of a wisecracking supporting player , `bats' mainly plays it's premise for straight-arrow horror .  judging by the ridiculous premise , this was not exactly a wise move .  the movie attempts to capture the essence of alfred hitchcock's `the birds' , but fails miserably .  done right , it could have been adequately amusing halloween cinema .  unfortunately , `bats' is a prime example of a formula movie done terribly , terribly wrong .  the only thing amusing about this festering pile of guano is in how intelligible the filmmakers anticipate their core audience to be .  i will recite the following paragraph in a manner that will reach the audience of individuals to whom `bats' is aimed toward .  those guys in hollywood have made a movie about bats .  these bats are not very nice , because they eat a lot of people .  boy , are these bats ugly .  they are infected with this bogus virus that makes them super-duper smart .  they've got big claws and red eyes and they are not very friendly at all .  a whole bunch of people in texas get killed , so a sheriff guy and a scientist lady are brought in to kill the bats .  they have big guns and other cool things to fight them with , but the bats are pretty smart , so it's sorta hard to do .  the bats swoop down and they shoot at them to make they go away for good .  but no , `bats' is probably too violent for pre-schoolers .  the film , directed by louis morneau , should have ventured straight into video stores .  on the small screen , perhaps more fun could have been derived with lower expectations .  but sitting through this crapper on the big screen is almost awkward ; although at a few moments it becomes a guilty pleasure , the film is poorly written , poorly acted and executed with glaring ineptitude .  even the bats themselves are cheesy , and the attack sequences too rushed and jittery to be properly enjoyed .  the sheriff in the story is emmett kimsey ( lou diamond phillips ) , who embodies every pathetic stereotype a small-town authority figure usually portrays ( he chomps on a cigar , struts contentedly in his boots , etc . . . ) .  the scientist is dr . sheila casper ( dina meyer ) , who specializes in flying mammals and is classified as `the best in her field' .  meyer uses a lot of technical terms designed to make the movie seem more intellectually capable , but everything about dr . casper is recycled beyond recognition .  her memories of how she became hooked on the topic of bats sounds suspiciously like oceanographic student matt hooper's tale of how he became infatuated with sharks in `jaws' .  everything revolving around `bats' is tired drivel , which desperately requires some directorial style or acting capabilities to spruce it up .  the supporting cast could have been constructed out of straw , with voices dubbed in later .  in fact , that may have worked out better in the end .  take one glance at casper's bat-loathing sidekick jimmy ( leon ) , and you'll have immediate deja vu - he's the exact same humorous buddy caricature from every other movie , constructed specifically for timed comic relief .  unfortunately , none of his comic interludes are funny .  in the role of deranged mad scientist dr . mccabe , the reliable bob gunton gets cornered with the most hideously idiotic character in the bunch .  mccabe `accidentally' released two experimental test subjects , and the virus spread to other bats .  the entire town of gallup , texas is under attack from an enormous swarm of the creatures , but gunton appears to be inconspicuously contemplating something else .  something like : `when is the damn movie going to be over ? ?  i just want my money . '  the bats are ugly , i must say .  there's the occasional moment where they look moderately convincing , but mainly , the swarm is represented in cheesy digital imagery .  only bits of the bloody action even hint at the campy fun the film could have been , but by the absurdly stupid climax , it's way too late in the game for a decent recovery .  characters experiment in slaughtering the bats with gunfire .  let's explore the logic there : is this really a very efficient way to decrease the bat population ? ?  you could empty an entire clip at the flying winged serpents and not even wound one , and after that there are only 18 , 000 more of them .  this kind of behavior represents the regular level of intelligence behind `bats' .  
the most interesting part of " can't hardly wait " just happens to be not only the most human , but for many of us , the one part that many of us can easily relate to .  that is the character of denise ( lauren ambrose ) , the film's sole sarcastic member who mocks everything that goes on in the film , and at one point sits down on a couch and looks totally bored .  the film wisely holds over this moment , nicely showing her alienation in the midst of a large high school party . . . almost  too nicely .  for some members of the audience ( read : me ) , this is basically a mirror of what's going on with them watching this film .  we sit there wondering why we've even bothered to see a film about a long high school party we probably never felt the desire to go to in the first place .  i would actually highly recommend this film if it satirized all of this .  after all , this film is filled with a bunch of pathetic stereotypes much of which i went to high school with .  everyone's here : the jock , the homecoming queen , the nerd ( and his dominions of trekkies and x-philes ) , the alienated wannabe writer , the school spirit girl , the pothead ( s ) , the wigger , etc , etc , etc , and weirdly enough this film shows them as superficial , lame , and basically as a bunch of losers .  except for denise , who rolls her eyes at everything , and easily becomes the most likable character even before she speaks ( her yearbook entry , something which is done for each main character , quotes oscar wilde - definite pointers there ) .  unfortunately , the writers and directors take several major misteps on the way to making this into an admirable and even likable film .  the film , as i said , portrays most of its characters as superficial and just totally ignorant to everything .  however , instead of sticking with this , perhaps even going a bit further with it , they let this lie , and actually make these characters into our heroes .  we follow several of them , all a bunch of moronic stereotypes with only a shread of humanity and realism , and tries to tell boring and overly melodramatic tales about them as if we actually cared and/or identified with them .  and if we did , we certainly don't want to revisit that state of being .  here's a quick low-down : it's graduation , and we follow a bunch of seniors on the last night , otherwise known as the " american grafitti " or , to a lesser extent , the " dazed and confused " cliche .  the formal just followed them as they drove aimlessly ; the latter did a little bit of that and featured a big outdoor keg party .   " can't hardly wait " just opts for a big indoor keg party , and a little bit of aimless driving , albeit of the i'm-whining-because-i-can't-get-a-girl-i-want brand .  we follow many people around , but mostly we trail preston ( ethan embry , of " that thing you do ! " ) , the alienated writer , who's been pining over the homcoming queen , amanda ( the totally overrated jennifer love hewitt ) , for the entirety of high school because he thinks they shared a moment their freshman year over a freaking pop tart .  now that she's broken up with her football player boyfriend , mike ( peter facinelli ) , he decides to go to the party with a note he's written declaring his " love " for her in the hopes he'll build up the guts to give it to her . . . even  though he's leaving for a multi-week intensive writing program hosted by none other than kurt vonnegut ( okay : the ingenius vonnegut or some icky noxema spokesperson ? ) .  since that plot is incredibly lame and a track record of what goes on with it wouldn't be able to carry a commercial let alone a feature film , and because it's a party , there are some more main characters , such as : william ( charlie korsmo , finally surfacing after " dick tracy " ) , the nerd ( and his dominions ) who has come up with a ridiculous plan to publically sabotage mike , who's humiliated him for years , but gets too caught up in drinking to do it ; kenny ( seth green ) , the wigger , who has decided that this party will be where he will finally get laid ( uh huh ) ; and denise , the only exceptional character , who unfortunately gets stuck in a bathroom ( don't ask ) with kenny where the two characters let down their characters and are allowed to follow the laws of plot cliches from point a to point b with nary a bit of characterization involved after awhile .  ugh .  the main comparison this film is getting to another film is actually not " american grafitti " or " dazed and confused , " two films that embraced and ultimately made humans out of many of its high schoolers ( not to mention were extremely entertaining ) , but to john hughes films of the 80s , most notably " sixteen candles . "  the big difference in the two is that that film managed to not only embrace but even satirize its main characters , and did so equally and in an entertaining fashion .  this film forgets to satirize its characters , and ultimately tells a story about a bunch of uninteresting stereotypes . . . and  then says that it's all okay .  we can't take this film seriously , nor can we take this as fun , so really what good is it ?  but i will tell you some things i did like : i liked the direction , except for a couple too-over-the-top features , like way-too-glossy jump cuts ( it's like an oxymoron ) and other obscurities .  generally , though , elfont and kaplan do have graceful camera movement , and even manage to capture an altman-esque feel to their film from time to time ( a thing with a note , though , is too hokey to really be admirable ) .  i actually did like seth green , for once in about a decade ( when he played a very young woody allen in " radio days " ) - his desintegration of his wigger character was almost believable . . . almost .  and , of course , lauren ambrose is wonderful as denise , the one character we could have used some more of , even though it would have changed the entirety of the film .  however , the character of denise really doesn't work with the film , when really thought about .  she's far too witty and realized ( at least for the first half ) to belong in this film , and whenever she appears , she automatically gives everything a delightfully satirical tone .  she's not just the cynic or the intellectual ; she's just a very interesting character who provides entertainment even if it further damages other already damaged characters .  she may ruin the film more , but at least when she's on screen we can sit up and think to ourselves " well , at least we'll be entertained . "  a couple other things that just don't work : mike's character , who suffers an epiphany throughout the film but in the end acts as though he has forgotten everything : too much the sacrificial lamb for the film in general ; the aimless , bitchy driving by preston to try and get over his inability to shack up with amanda - give me a break ; and perhaps the one thing that just doesn't work at all : jenna eflman's uncredited cameo as an angel - just didn't work , but nice try .  basically the worst thing about this film , the real reason i'm giving this such a low rating , is because it refuses to give us any fully realized characters and then insists we follow around complete stereotypes from other movies doing things that are inane and unlike anything we'd do .  we don't feel for these characters because for most of us , we aren't stereotypes going through the motions to worn subplots .  the acid test for high school movies is : does it at all capture the feel of what it's portraying ?  the answer for this film is no .  nice try , though .  
the film may be called mercury rising , but that title doesn't describe the trajectory taken by this motion picture , a routine thriller that combines government cover-ups with a cloying and poorly-motivated buddy story .  the " hook " that is supposed to make mercury rising unique is that the young protagonist is autistic .  however , aside from giving actor miko hughes a chance to win raves for his performance , this particular aspect of the film comes across as nothing more than a convenient plot device .  those expecting to see even a semi-thorough exploration of the condition will be disappointed .  mercury rising treats autism with the same degree of efficiency that many action thrillers accord to alcoholism .  the script for mercury rising is exceptionally tiresome and hard- to-swallow .  i don't know whether the problem is in the original book , simple simon , or in the screenplay adaptation , but this movie easily exceeds the intangible threshold beyond which a suspension of disbelief is no longer possible .  once again , certain standby plot elements -- the high-level government conspiracy and the maverick law enforcement agent -- are recycled , and not to good effect .  while bruce willis can play the action hero as well as anyone in hollywood , this particular outing leaves him marooned in situations that are characterized by too little tension and too much nonsense .  the story begins with a formulaic sequence in which the tough fbi agent with a heart of gold , art jeffries ( bruce willis ) , is confronted with his own failure .  unable to resolve a hostage crisis in time , he is forced to observe as two teenagers are shot to death .  the event weighs heavily on his conscience and heavy-handedly establishes his motivation for protecting 9-year old simon lynch ( miko hughes ) when he discovers the autistic child hiding in a closet after his parents have been gunned down by the evil hit man who looks like an ex-football player .  soon , art and simon are on the run from seemingly everyone -- fleeing for their lives and bonding at the same time , with the evil hit man who looks like an ex-football player always just a step behind them .  along the way , they are helped by the best friend who defies orders to help out his buddy ( chi mcbride ) and the supporting female who may or may not become a love interest ( kim dickens ) .  why is simon in danger and why were his parents turned into swiss cheese by the evil hit man who looks like an ex-football player ?  apparently , the government has spent millions of dollars developing an ultra-secret code called " mercury . "  to make sure it can't be cracked , they do the most intuitive thing possible : place a sample of it in a " nerds' puzzle magazine . "  of course , no one can solve it -- no one except autistic simon , that is .  when he calls the phone number listed in the solution , he gets the nsa .  as a result , the cold-hearted , sneering government man ( alec baldwin ) decides that simon has to be eliminated -- for the good of the country , of course .  but he hasn't counted on the tough fbi agent with a heart of gold , even though everyone in the audience has .  it's hard to get worked up about a routine thriller that doesn't do anything exceptionally well , and does quite a few things rather poorly .  for those who are desperate to find elements of this movie to like , mercury rising manages to manufacture tension from time-to-time , but even the most exciting scenes ( such as the one where art and simon are crouched down , avoiding passing trains ) aren't that pulse-pounding .  the climactic struggle is a real ho-hum affair which leads to a finale that is painful in its obviousness .  overall , director harold becker is constantly struggling ( and failing ) to generate even a moment that isn't derivative or obligatory .  bruce willis' star seems to be fading .  this is his fourth straight lackluster outing , following last man standing , the fifth element , and the jackal .  willis isn't terrible , but this is the kind of role he can sleepwalk through , and often does .  alec baldwin , combining elements of his characters from glengarry glenn ross and malice , does some scenery- chewing , but his performance is surprisingly lacking in menace .  the film's real star is young miko hughes ( heather langenkamp's son in wes craven's new nightmare ) , who does as good a job as dustin hoffman playing an autistic individual , but is about 50 years younger .  mercury rising joins the likes of hard rain , the replacement killers , and u . s . marshals on the heap of pallid 1998 thrillers .  for those who like action and adventure in the theater , this has not been a good year .  hopefully , the advent of summer will change that .  until then , the best choices ( for bruce willis or any other action hero ) are on video .  and , if you're determined to see mercury rising , check out the morning sky in early may .  
 " alcohol and drugs = bad .  not alcohol and drugs = good .  got it ? "  just when you though you've seen enough of brave young women dealing with their personal problems on screen , be that insanity or alcoholism , hollywood releases yet another one of those 'deep , emotional stories about finding yourself' . .  '28 days' is practically a visualization of the usual 'meaningful' true stories that people are so proudly retelling at aa-meetings .  gwennie ( sandra bullock ) is a young woman who drowned her problems in alcohol .  for her life was a big party , with no beginning and no end .  this behavior has of course estranged her from her only sister and from life itself .  her existence is filled with endless parties and comic episodes .  such as when she got drunk with boyfriend jasper ( dominic west ) , borrowed her sister's ( elizabeth perkins ) wedding limo and crashed it into someone's house .  this time she had to pay with a 28 day stay in court-ordered rehab .  here she must realize that the only thing that can save her is her is redemption , willpower and commitment .  most important she must realize her place and direction in life and understand that her life is not just a big party .  the film itself feels like a rehab program , whining and moaning about things that have been said and written a million times .  it is a classic cautionary tale .  an echo .  a big , fat and expensive clich ? .  a shadow of last year's 'girl , interrupted' , which likewise followed in the footsteps of great masterpieces like 'the cuckoo's nest' and 'trainspotting' .  director betty thomas has stuffed her film with so many failures and errors , that it is impossible to sum them all up in one review .  for some paranoid reason she decided to make her film a drama/comedy .  jokes and funny characters almost deliberately delude you from the really important and complex issues : alienation , despair , terror , confusion , loneliness .  and what awesome power and strength of character it actually takes to overcome all that and become clean .  isn't that what the filmmakers wanted to show in the first place ?  even the transition process itself seems like a walk in the park . betty thomas' idea of hell is a cozy , homey place where happy alcoholics and cheerful drug addicts are not allowed to smoke , drink or watch tv after 11 .  it is simply too light , simplified and unnecessary sweet to be taken seriously .  but the worst thing about it is that it actually thinks that it is saying something of significance .  that it actually tries to educate the audience with its extremely predictable and primitive story .   " all you need to do is just say no " , says dr . cornell ( steve buscemi ) as if was the revelation of the century .  and that's how simple it is !  in fact i would rather watch 'lost in space' once again , than return to '28 days' .  as for acting , it's acceptable , but hardly anything else .  for sandra bullock it's an opportunity to demonstrate that she is capable of more than 'speed' .  she handles her part with a surprising professionalism and ease that certainly saves the film from being a complete flop .  dominic west shines as the source of gwenie's devilish temptations , but elizabeth perkins' and steve buscemi's great talents are wasted on unnoticeable and shallow characters .  although intellectually 'girl , interrupted' was a greater achievement , '28 days' is superior in its visual aspect .  there are some nice flash back sequences and occasionally impressive pacing , but the overall technical aspect of this film is on the ground floor .  the most important thing is that we've seen it before and it was a lot better .  'clean and sober' , 'only when i laugh' , 'when a man loves a woman' , 'leaving las vegas' and many other stronger films were made about the same issues .  so what's the point ?  in other words '28 days' doesn't contribute to the moviemaking business on any level .  if you're caught in a snowstorm or bolts of lightning fall from the sky and you're standing in front of the movie theatre , you might as well go in and watch '28 days' .  under all other circumstances stay away , because this film equals $8 and 103 minutes lost .  
capsule : combine one quart of raiders of the lost ark , a dash of a jackie chan movie ( sans jackie ) , two teaspoons of gun- and swordplay , and a dollop of cgi .  simmer for 100 minutes .  yields : zilch .  the phantom is a depressing and tired retread of so many earlier , better movies that after the fifteen-minute mark i started cataloguing them out loud .  it's hard to make a good action-adventure movie that doesn't simply recycle its predecessors , and i've seen movies that even at least did the recycling gracefully .  the phantom , allegedly based on the long-running comic of the same name , doesn't even bother to be graceful .  it's a stupid and incompetent movie in too many ways to list , but i'll try .  the film opens up with a " prelude " sequence that looks like it was slashed to ribbons in the editing and then given a heavy voice-over to compensate for whatever got thrown out .  we go from there to a jungle sequence that , i swear to god , recycles the truck-chase scene from raiders of the lost ark note-for-note , possibly even shot-for-shot , right down to the moment where indy wrenched open the door and slung one of the drivers out into the brush -- and then goes on to rip off the rope-bridge scene from " sorcerer " as well !  sorcerer , as you may well remember , was a remake of a french movie , the wages of fear , in which a bunch of lowlifes were paid piles of money to drive a truck loaded with nitro through horrible jungle terrain .  both versions of that movie were far more interesting than this flick , but i've got my job to do , so back to the salt mines we go .  anyway , the cinematic theft doesn't stop there .  or at least the lack of inspiration .  there isn't a single thing here we haven't seen , and it's not given to us in a way that remotely evokes our interest .  we have ( where's my list ? )  a bad girl , a tough good girl , a secret cave hideaway ( which seems inspired more by dr .  no than anything else ) , a boardroom meeting that drips with greed and venality , magical artifacts of terrible power , and cary-hiroyuki tagawa wasted in another stupid role where he gets to wear a fu manchu mustache and sneer a lot and generally humiliate himself .  what else is there ?  the plot is a waste of time .  the sets alternate between big but hokey -- and tiny and still hokey .  there are lines in the script that are just begging to be mst3ked -- and i'm sure once mike and the 'bots get the cash , they'll stick it on their sked .  the only thing in the movie worth noting is billy zane -- he's a good actor , and he tries very hard , even when the script is sending him down one dead alley of a scene after another .  all i can say is that i pray this isn't the beginning of the end for him -- although it sure looks like the final nail in the coffin for the comic-book super-hero movie .  
a new entry in the " revisionist history " genre of filmmaking , dick suggests that two not-too-bright teenage girls are the cause of the uncovering of the nation's biggest presidential scandal .  kirsten dunst and michelle williams star betsy and arlene , who while trying to deliver a fan letter from arlene's watergate hotel room , accidentally stumble across g . gordon liddy ( played dead-on by harry shearer ) and the infamous break-in .  when they recognize liddy later on during a white house field trip , they are ushered into a conference room , questioned as to what they know , and leave as official presidential dog walkers .  the girls manage to unwittingly uncover every bit of the watergate scandal while performing their duties , but have no clue as to what they are getting involved with .  when they discover that nixon ( another dead-on performance by dan hedaya , who actually favors nixon slightly , unlike anthony hopkins ) has been abusive to checkers , the presidential dog , thanks to the conversations that he always recorded , they quit and become disillusioned .  during a prank phone call the girls make to woodward and bernstein , events are set into motion that eventually lead to the president's resignation .  this film starts off promisingly with an aged woodward and bernstein arguing with each other on an obvious larry king-type talk show ( featuring a cameo by french stewart ) about revealing the identity of " deep throat " .  from there , we are subjected to bodily function humor and just about every bad " dick " joke one can derive from this type of supposed comedy .  at one point , the girls are having to scream over a high school band playing on the steps of the lincoln memorial .  the band manages to stop right as dunst screams " you have to stop letting dick run your life ! "  much to the horror of everyone standing within earshot .  several other variations on this wordplay surface all throughout the film .  if this movie had been smarter i would have been less likely to fault it's juvenile bathroom humor , but it's not .  the film was apparently made for relatively younger people because every major player in the watergate scandal is introduced and shoved down the audience's throat in the least subtle way possible .  i don't recall oliver stone's nixon having to pander to it's audience , but of course that film wasn't a comedy aimed squarely at a 13-20 year-old film going audience .  the only redeeming thing about this movie is it's remarkable supporting cast .  i wanted to see more of ferrell and mcculloch's woodward and bernstein .  those two characters are the sole basis for my rating .  i wish they had been given more screen time , but unfortunately , they are only relegated to the final half-hour .  their constant bickering and fighting over trying to get the story are a major highlight , especially mcculloch's constant thwarting of ferrell's attempts to gather information from the girls ( who , in the course of the narrative are revealed as deep throat , so named thanks to an ill planned trip to a porno theater by betsy's brother ) .  the other members of the cast are excellent in their portrayals of their particular characters , but are given nothing to work with .  i'd like to see the same cast portray these characters in a script more suited towards their comedic abilities .  as for the two leads , dunst and williams can definitely do better .  they come off as what could best be described as romy and michele : the early years in this particular film , a highly dubious distinction at best .  stay through the first half of the end credits though , to see an interesting scene involving dunst and williams suggestively sucking on lollipops emblazoned with the title of the movie .  an excellent idea marred by poor execution , dick could have been a great movie .  less of the juvenile humor and more of the smarter comedy displayed by the woodward and bernstein scenes , could have made this film a wonderful satire of the nixon presidency as seen through the eyes of two naive fifteen year olds .  as it stands though , dick offers nothing but what filmmaker kevin smith so accurately defines as " dick and poopie " jokes .  and that , to me , does not make a funny movie .  [pg-13]  
words i thought i'd never write : the sequel to urban legend lacks the grace , wit , and power of the original .  put the gun to my head , pull the trigger , and put me out of my misery .  better yet , put the horror genre out of its misery .  when you've finished watching urban legends : final cut , you'll share my same grim point of view thanks to the horrible acting , terrible script , and ridiculous directing which has become all too common today .  urban legends : final cut is a smorgasbord of stolen movie ideas ( mainly from the blair witch project and scream ) : fabulous people with perfect teeth and skin , one creepy film school , and a dog eating a freshly removed kidney from one of the movie's hapless victims .  urban legends delivers a story about a bunch of film students working on their thesis films to win the coveted " hitchcock award " which guarantees the winner a director deal in hollywood .  one female filmmaker ( jennifer morrison , the freaky dead girl from stir of echoes ) writes a fiction script based on a serial killer who kills his victims according to " urban legend " tales .  suddenly , her entire crew starts getting bumped off with urban-legendary homicides , but the bodies are always missing and she is often the only witness to the killings .  the killer wears a fencing mask and a long black overcoat , looking like a scorned olympian out to avenge his defeat in sydney .  why this is scary is never explained .  of course , the golden rule of sequels is that there must be least one recurring character for continuity's sake .  urban legends has one minor , recurring character from the original who we never cared about anyway ( the security guard , of all people ) .  the other central problem is that this character has already seen the urban legend killings once before , but she's utterly clueless about what's going on around her .  call it suspension of disbelief .  this film is also a prime example of how horror films are now completely dead in the water .  the last decent horror film was the blair witch project , and that seemed more like a snuff film than fiction .  the stalking killer with crazy motivation has become a tired clich ? , as everyone seems to have forgotten : real horror is not about what is seen but about what is unknown .  
godzilla is the ultimate culmination of the " who cares about plot " summer movie .  a loose remake of the 1954 " classic " japanese monster movie , godzilla , king of the monsters ( which is itself pretty thin in the story department ) , roland emmerich and dean devlin's big-budget lizard-stomps-manhattan disaster flick has been written with the brain dead in mind .  the script isn't just " dumbed down , " it's lobotomized .  godzilla lives and dies on special effects alone .  presumably , the primary target group for this film is teenage boys , the demographic most likely to shell out $7 repeatedly to see the same images of monster-instigated carnage .  that's not to say that females and other age groups are immune to the special effects seduction ; they're just not as readily susceptible .  this is the third straight movie in a row where emmerich and devlin have demonstrated that a mastery of computer-generated visuals is far more important for making money than the ability to write and direct for actors .  stargate was a financial success .  independence day was a runaway hit .  and , with godzilla already drowning in hype and merchandising tie-ins before it even opens , it's virtually guaranteed at least $100 million .  nice numbers for a film that could have been penned by a not-too-precocious grade school kid .  godzilla isn't completely without merit , although it is close .  there's a certain visceral thrill inherent in watching the giant lizard rip his way through manhattan , but it wears off quickly .  frankly , while the special effects are competent , they're not all that stunning .  there's nothing new here ; it's jurassic park meets aliens , with a little independence day thrown in for bad measure .  maybe it will require george lucas and his new star wars movie to take computer-generated visuals to the next level .  godzilla never really pushes the envelope , preferring to remain within a comfort zone .  the imagination of monster movies like king kong has been replaced by a crass , formulaic approach which disallows creativity .   ( how disturbing is it to know that godzilla has been chosen to close the 51st cannes film festival ? )  worst of all , godzilla isn't even exciting .  with the possible exception of a mildly enjoyable car chase near the end , there isn't a sequence in this film that raises the pulse .  even the scenes with dozens of aircraft attacking the monster are so devoid of tension and suspense that they are yawn-provoking .  independence day may have been dumb , but it was full of " adrenaline moments " capable of getting the audience involved in the action .  in this aspect of its production , as in so many others , godzilla is lacking .  actually , part of the problem is that we're never sure who we're supposed to be rooting for : the green monster with an attitude or the paper-thin humans trying to stop him .  the plot , such as it is , can be summed up rather simply .  after sinking a few ships and leaving some footprints on tropical islands , godzilla shows up in the big apple .  he does some of the usual tourist things : stops by madison square garden , visits the chrysler building , goes on a walk through central park , and takes the subway .  in the process , he knocks over a few buildings and steps on countless cabs , but he never has trouble with traffic jams .  on hand to stop him is an elite u . s . army unit , led by a slightly less-arrogant-than-usual military man ( kevin dunn ) and a biologist named nick tatopoulos , who has a theory about godzilla .  in his opinion , the big guy is actually a lizard grown to enormous proportions as a result of the radiation given off by french atomic bomb tests in the south pacific .  in nick's words , godzilla is " a mutated aberration ? an incipient creature ? the first of its kind . "  as luck would have it , nick's old girlfriend , audrey ( maria pitillo ) , is a reporter based at a new york tv station .  along with her cameraman friend , animal ( hank azaria ) , she decides to follow nick around as he trails godzilla .  then , just when the military has rejected nick's theory about why godzilla is in new york , a member of the french secret service ( jean reno ) recruits him for a special assignment .  instead of stomping around tokyo this time , godzilla has chosen new york city .  unfortunately , manhattan has been destroyed so many times in recent disaster movies ( independence day , deep impact , armageddon ) that it's becoming boring .  the whole tradition of monsters roaming around the city started with king kong , but the big ape was only about 30 feet tall .  he could climb the empire state building .  at ten times that height , godzilla would be more likely to knock it over .  godzilla contains a few lame attempts at humor .  there's an ongoing feud between animal and his wife that plays like sit-com material , an unfunny and repetitive gag about how no one can pronounce nick's last name properly , and a rather tame attack on film critics roger ebert and gene siskel .  both of the popular personalities have alter egos in the film : " ebert , " the mayor of new york , is played by michael lerner , and " gene " ( lorry goldman ) is his campaign manager .  ebert's re-election slogan is , not surprisingly , " thumbs up for new york . "  the siskel/ebert stuff is amusing the first time it's used , but , after a while , it grows tiresome .  and , although the " characters " don't serve any real purpose , they keep popping up .  godzilla is saddled with an unimpressive cast .  this is largely because emmerich doesn't want to risk a human performance upstaging his lizard .  that's not to say that matthew broderick and jean reno aren't capable of good performances ( both have done their share of solid acting in the past ) , but they aren't a-list names .  then again , considering the quality of the writing , even pacino and deniro would have been hard- pressed to shine .  maria pitillo ( dear god ) plays the love interest and hank azaria ( great expectations ) is on hand to present what is supposed to be comic relief .  ultimately , it doesn't really matter what i ( or any other critic , for that matter ) have to say about the movie .  tristar has assumed that godzilla , like all self-proclaimed summer event motion pictures , is pretty much critic-proof .  it may also be word-of-mouth-proof .  those who want to see the movie will see it no matter what i write or their friends say .  so , when i go on record to assert that godzilla is one of the most idiotic blockbuster movies of all time , it's like spitting into the wind .  emmerich and devlin are master illusionists , waving their wands and mesmerizing audiences with their smoke and mirrors .  it's probably too much to hope that some day , movie-goers will wake up and realize that they've been had .  
recently one night a young director named baz luhrmann couldn't sleep .  he tumbled out of bed and moved over to the television where he watched mtv for an hour .  then he moved to his kitchen where he spent the same amount of time eating spoiled food .  then he took down a volume of shakespeare's work and read it cover to cover - never really paying attention to the words or plot .  and then , as a climax , he took out his video camera and pressed the " on " button .  the result ?  william shakespeare's romeo + juliet - the worst film ever made and a complete failure .  though , to be fair , an interesting complete failure .  the idea at the film's core is to make shakespeare appealing to the crowds .  this is done by moving the camera around at a rapid rate so that we can't see what is going on .  and filming the dialogue in voice over .  and shooting leonardo dicaprio like a calvin klein model .  and making the frame go still while flashing the character's name at the bottom .  and filming long tedious action sequences in slow motion .  i mean , man , this is the 90s , dude .  however i've seen terrible films that are fun to watch .   ( examples are batman and robin and the island of doctor moreau .   ) that rule doesn't apply here .  this is a film that takes itself seriously .  that is it's major fault .  another problem was pointed out by my friend , alex ( who was singing songs by leonard bernstein throughout .   ) ; the original play is a powerful piece of work because the author remained neutral and didn't take sides .  here it's clear that we are supposed to side with romeo .   ( just look at the way they film him .   ) from the begining he's our hero and this doesn't work .  and dicaprio's awful performance doesn't help .  luhrmann never decides if he wants to entertain us or enlighten us .  the result is a mess .  you can feel him striving to be something he isn't .  he tries to pull of a mix in which drag queens are filmed from purposefully arty angles .  he tries very hard .  key word : tries .   " oh look , he's filming above water action from below .  pretty .  what does it represent ? "  why do people do ugly things ?  i scrambled away from my tv set feeling guilty as if i could never read the play again and keep a straight face .  
in times of crisis people are driven to desperate measures .  of course what constitutes a crisis differs from person to person .  what may be a disastrous situation for one , may be seen as a challenge to another .  as deepak chopra is known to say , " it's not the ride , it's the rider . "  unfortunately clear-thinking is not always the reaction to problems .  wall street wheeler dealer steven taylor ( michael douglas ) is a man with troubles .  he's sunk his money in illegal financial activities and it's blown up in his face .  in a matter of days he will lose it all .  his wife emily ( gwyneth paltrow ) is a highly-placed un interpreter and is not happy with her life either .  her marriage is cold and unfulfilling .  unknown to her , her new lover david shaw ( viggo mortensen ) is not only a painter , but an ex-con with a history of bilking wealthy women of their money .  emily is a prime target : she's worth over $100 million .  steven's solution to his predicament is to offer david half a million to kill his wife .  the artist accepts and the movie is underway .  drawing from frederick knott's play and loosely based on hitchcock's dial m for murder , this is all-too typical of summer releases .  all style and no substance .  and there's really not much style .  director andrew davis ( the accomplished witness and best-forgotten other films ) has made exactly the wrong choices at almost every turn .  douglas and paltrow have both shown us that they are skillful actors in previous films .  mortensen showed promise in the past .  here all three are walking uninterestingly through their roles with oddly waxen faces .  the only person who shows any sense of life is david suchet as new york detective mohamed karaman .  he's only on-screen long enough to make you think that there might be a likable person in the film and then he disappears .  the first concern of a suspense film is to create suspense .  surprises are important .  in this movie the audience keeps waiting for something to happen .  and nothing ever does .  nearly every event is telegraphed in advance .  close-up on this object or that action and it's easy to guess what's going to happen .  as the film plods towards its inevitable conclusion you keep expecting a plot twist to make the movie worthwhile .  it's a hopeless quest .  the story doesn't make much sense .  steven's wife is loaded .  even with unfriendly relations , you'd think that he could have talked to her about his difficulty rather than deciding to kill her .  when he does decide on the dire plan he makes an unreasonable choice .  if you were going to hire someone to kill your wife , would your first choice be her lover ?  no matter how sleazy he is , i would think there might be a chance that he would turn down the opportunity .  why would steven plan the murder as a break-in in their apartment ?  why not just take her out as she was walking to david's loft in a bad neighborhood ?  while deciding among the numerous summer films , you might do well to skip this one .  you'll find more suspense than this movie offers by watching the weather channel .  
 " virus " is a monster movie without a monster .  any movie with a hurdle that large to overcome had better be pretty damn good otherwise .  sadly , " virus " does not deliver , on any level .  the movie opens with the russian space station mir about to transmit something ( we never find out what ) to a big boat with lots of satellites on it .  sudddenly , a wave of colorful lightning comes flying through space , and winds up destroying mir and using it to transmit itself to the aforementioned big boat .  cut to seven days later , we meet donald sutherland and his band of seafaring vultures .  see , they spend all their time sailing around looking for dead-in-the-water ships to rescue , and then collect the reward money .  at least , i * think * that's what they do .  along with many other things in the film , their reason for being out in the middle of the ocean isn't really explained .  so , they stumble upon this big boat with lots of satellites on it , and decide to haul it back to russian waters .  the only problem is , the crew starts disappearing one-by-one and turning into borg .  yes , borg .  complete with the red laser beam in place of an eye .  apparently , this alien lifeform can only survive if inside something electrical .  so , it creates make-shift machines and uses humans for " spare parts " .  blah , blah , blah .  i could go on forever describing the ludicrous so-called plot , but i won't .  suffice it to say the most original thing about this movie is having donald sutherland play an irish man ( ! ) .  everything else in this movie has been taken from other ( better ) movies .  for example , many of the machines resemble those found in the little-seen japanese movie , " tetsuo-the iron man " .  and the plot is right out of " aliens " .  the funny thing is , i was actually expecting to enjoy this movie .  i have a soft spot for cheesy monster movies , like last years under-appreciated " deep rising " .  but " virus " , as i mentioned earlier , doesn't even have a monster .  it just has a big pile of circuits and wires and expects the audience to fear this ridiculous looking contraption .   " virus " is the type of movie that really makes you wonder what the screenwriter was thinking about when he wrote it .  besides the lame " monster " , it's chock full of dialogue that no real person would ever say , and situations that no real person would ever allow themselves to get into .  for example , there is a scene late in the movie in which one of the characters actually attempts to * negotiate * with the alien !  now , i don't know about you , but if i came upon a lifeform that viewed mankind as a virus to be eliminated , i doubt that i would attempt to reason with it .  that makes about as much sense as a baby squirrel calmly asking a fierce predator to spare his life .  finally , " virus " isn't scary .  the least the filmmakers could have done was to make the movie just a little scary .  as it is , it's about as frightening as a box of cookies .  skip " virus " .  if it's a cool monster movie you want , rent the far superior ( and the granddaddy of this genre ) " aliens " .  
dr . alan grant ( sam neill , " jurassic park " ) is becoming disillusioned .  paleontology is no longer the sexy science it once was since the ingen corporation cloned his subject matter .  his lectures bring people interested in his adventures on isla nubla rather than his research and funding dollars are drying up .  when the kirbys ( william h . macy , " fargo " ; tea leoni , " the family man " ) ask him to be their guide for an anniversary flyover of isla sorna ( the notorious site b of " the lost world " ) he's disdainful , but once they wave their checkbook , he reconsiders .  however the kirbys haven't given dr . grant their real agenda in " jurassic park iii . "  of course , we , the audience , have been tipped off , given that the film begins by showing us eric ( trevor morgan , " the patriot " ) , a young boy , and ben ( mark harelik , " election " ) going for a paragliding adventure off that same island that goes awry ( and looks like cheesy rear projection ) .  grant's established back home with a new right hand man , billy brennan ( alessandro nivola , " love's labour's lost " ) on site at a dig in montana sorely lacking funds .  he also pays a visit to old flame dr . ellie sattler ( laura dern , " jurassic park " ) , now married to another with a young son who calls grant 'the dinosaur man' apparently for the sole purpose of dredging her up again for the film's poorly imagined finale .  grant takes billy along on the kirbys trip , which is really an illegal gambit to save their son , that young paraglider .  the couple aren't millionaires , making grant's check bogus , and they're separated as well ( eric was with amanda's new boyfriend , not that that makes much sense ) , meaning we're in for some gooey family dynamics while waiting for the dino dining .  the kirbys hired hands ( and obvious bait ) are a threesome led by mr . udesky ( michael jeter , " the gift " ) .   ( didn't anyone consider that casting michael jeter and william h . macy together and not having them be related was a little odd ? )  as directed by joe johnston ( " october sky , " " jumanji " ) ( spielberg only produced this one ) from a risible script by peter buchman and the " election " team of alexander payne & jim taylor , " jurassic park iii " is nothing more than a quickie monster flick with a couple of new dinos ( a spinosauraus , which goes head to head with the t-rex , and pteranodons ) .  the plot , as it were , is a series of coincidences combined with extreme leaps of faith and a trifecta of stupid cell phone tricks .  the effects are no longer new , and , as shot by television cinematographer shelly johnson , rather murky looking at times .  film editing by robert dalva ( " october sky " ) was presumably done by machete , to keep this down to a 90 minute run time .  i know of no other reason to explain the ridiculous ending which features the survivors confronting a pack of raptors , then being saved by the most ludicrous of logic jumps within a few minutes .  'original' music by don davis just repeats john williams' original themes .  while neill and young morgan attempt to inject some humor and humanity into the proceedings , the rest of the cast are plodding unexceptional .   " jurassic park iii " will probably provide some quick entertainment for those who go into it knowing what to expect , the same crowd who maybe liked " the lost world : jurassic park . "  
barb wire , pamela anderson lee's first foray into films , highlights the fact that her only talent lies in her silicone enhanced assets .  being the only notable member of the cast , the camera lingers lustily o n her body at every opportunity , making her character's catch line , " don't call me babe , " sound very ironic indeed .  from the very opening of the movie , we are treated to a striptease routine from anderson , ending in her hurling her stiletto smack between the eyes of a lusty male who happened to call her babe .  throughout the movie , there is ample footage of enormous breasts and cleavage , if not of anderson's , then at least of the female extras .  this alone is enough to retitle the movie babe wire .  for a plot , barb wire rehashes the casablanca storyline .  it is 2017 , the middle of the second american civil war , and barb wire , a former resistance fighter , runs a joint in steel harbour called hammerhead ( ! ! ) .  known for attracting resistance fighters an d characters of all sorts , the bar attracts the attention of the government forces who appear dressed in nazi-style uniforms .  in between bashing up helpless males and showing off her trademark breasts , barb wire has to help a former lover and his wife get to the airport on the other side of the town , past the government-controlled areas , and to freedom .  even the airport looks like the one in casablanca , except that the plane in the background is a modern , private jet .  there are hardly any significant moments in this film , and one gets the impression that it was designed for young teenagers familiar with the dark horse comics version of " barb wire . "  if anything , one leaves the film with the confirmation that anderson di d not do her own stunts .  who could fight and jump in a skimpy , strapless leather top , and yet keep her breasts from spilling out ?  only a stuntwoman .  not pamela anderson lee .  
humanities quest for knowledge never ends .  so a team of scientists and film-makers travel to the amazon to search for a legendary indian tribe .  the party consists of anthropologist steven cale ( eric stoltz ) and the camera team consisting of terri flores ( jennifer lopez ) , danny rich ( ice cube ) , gary dixon ( owen wilson ) , denise kahlberg ( kari wuhrer ) and warren westridge ( jonathan hyde ) .  early on their journey they meet paul sarone ( jon voight ) whose boat is stuck on the shore .  they agree to give him a ride to the next village .  he claims to know the area well and can be useful locating the native tribe .  very soon their friendliness backfires on the group because sarone turns out to be a snake hunter without scruples who only wants to catch a giant anaconda and sell it to a zoo .  we don't have to wait too long for the giant snake .  she just had a panther hors d'oevre and now is looking for the main course .  our heroes paddle around in the amazonas as if it were the pool in their own backyard .  no wonder giant animals mistake their splashing for a dinner bell .  our anaconda is a polite one and swallows the first victim in one big gulp .  enjoy !  so much for the first attempt to catch her .  but who would want to catch a giant snake with a fishing pole ?  our villain sarone shows his soft side when he stops terri from shooting the snake .  too bad that anaconda is just about to strangle another member of the expedition .  one by one she goes after the others .  eric stoltz is stung by a giant wasp right in the beginning and is mercifully unconcious for the rest of the adventure .  the rest of the crew keeps entertaining the viewer although not the way the makers of the movie had planned .  however the scenes without the anaconda are rather boring .  whenever the leading lady shows up we're in for a laugh .  the snake reminds us of a favorite character of a famous animated movie even if she should be an awe-inspiring monster .  her attacks always follow the same plan : one last hypnotic look - she's looking at you , kid - then she speedily wraps herself around her victim and starts to gush it down .  mostly we don't see the act of devouring .  but she looks nice when she wiggles away with her bulging middle part .  whoever did the special effects on this movie may have wanted to go to a zoo first and study some real snakes .  maybe then the anaconda model would have looked more real .  the animatronics are somewhat more believable .  but that didn't work for the strangling scenes .  don't go see the movie for the f/x .  they are everything but up-to-date .  the viewer who likes to watch the end credits will see to his/her surprise that a snake expert was a consultant for the team .  we may doubt though that he has ever seen the final result of his work .  a well known american science magazine is also mentioned in the credits , but i will refrain from naming it here to avoid further damage to its reputation .  the majority of viewer will have left the theater as soon as the credits start rolling , anyway .  what kind of audience is the target group for this movie ?  hard to say .  this can't be a serious horror movie , or can it ?  see for yourself .  
absolute power , the new film produced and directed by clint eastwood , attempts to be a thriller set in the world of hypocritical presidents and their murderous political staff .  it is about as thrilling as a lecture on the mating habits of the south american grasshopper .  one can only wonder how an utterly absurd script like the one written by william goldman could have ever interested eastwood .  not only is the plot unbelievable and contrived , but even the writing itself lacks any consistency or intelligence .  continually underestimating the audience , the film gives us information we already know or dont even need .  details essential to the story are so improbably convenient they are annoying ( like why would two unprepared secret service men carry two night-vision goggles in their car ? ) .  oddly enough , the initial setup for absolute power offers interesting possibilities .  a masterful jewel-thief ( played by clint eastwood ) witnesses the murder of the wife of a powerful millionaire ( played by e . g .  marshall ) .  while robbing one of marshalls mansions , he is forced to hide in the bedrooms vault .  there , through a two-way mirror , he sees the wife and another man engage in passionate foreplay .  their game of love quickly turns into a violent struggle as the man starts beating the woman .  in self defense , the woman grabs a letter-opener and stabs the man in the elbow .  she raises her arm to stab again when she is fatally shot by two secret service men .  the man ?  he is the president of the united states of america .  where does the film go wrong ?  it cannot be the acting .  clint eastwood , ed harris and gene hackman as the president give type-cast , but decent performances .  the cinematography is sufficient ; wild and erratic during action sequences , dark and mysterious during psychologically suspenseful scenes , and calm and warm during dramatic dialogue .  even the music is not as bombastic as it usually tends to be in the thriller/suspense genre .  the fault clearly lies in the screenplay , and the screenplay alone .  while setting up a story about misuse of power , about the true possessors of that power , and about intrigue and double-crossing , it does not resolve it .  not one buildup of suspense is resolved by an exciting climax .  rather , the tense situations are left dangling at the end , giving the viewer an uneasy sense of incompleteness .  an example of this is a very promising and tense buildup of a scene : in an attempt to arrest clint eastwood , the police have set up a trap at a small restaurant .  police officers are everywhere , incognito of course .  at the same time , not one but two hit men are preparing to kill clint eastwood when he arrives .  all three parties are unaware of each others presence .  this scene is tremendously exciting and the audience is wondering how clint eastwood , who might suspect this is a trap , will get himself out of this difficult position .  he will probably have a brilliant plan , involving ingenious preparations .  however , when he arrives at the trap , both hit men miss ( how convenient ) and in the confusion eastwood simply walks away .  the buildup of this scene took about ten minutes .  ten minutes of close ups of the hit men loading their weapons intercut with the police preparing for the trap .  the scene was resolved in less than 20 seconds . . .  parallel to the story line of catching the real killer is a cliche emotional tale about the estranged relationship between father eastwood and his daughter .  the daughter blames her father for never being there for her , because he was either in jail or robbing a house somewhere .  of course their relationship takes a turn for the better during the adventure and they end up a happy family .  again , it is commendable that absolute power tries to deviate from the mainstream suspense film by giving room for a dramatic subplot .  however , trying is simply not enough !  the second story line should be subtle , original and preferably unpredictable . . .  everything this film is not .  how could a screenplay like absolute power ever get the funding to be produced ?  how could eastwood , who has successfully produced and directed many outstanding films such as the brilliant unforgiven , ever believe in a project like this one ?  i am sad to say that my respect for the actor/director/producer has diminished substantially due to this film .  director quentin tarantino once said : " i can make a good movie out of any bad script . "  director clint eastwood obviously cannot .  
ever feel you're spending your whole life on the net ( ouch ! ) , eating , breathing and excreting web sites ?  that your most meaningful relationships are being formed on the net ?  that you get your best sex on the net ?  if first-time director hal salwen could shoot an entire movie of characters typing at their computers , he would .  as it is , he settles for characters talking on the phone .  denise calls up is a movie for and about the electronic generation , where characters are too caught up with their work and insecurities prefer to live out their relationships and fantasies on the phone .  it's a satire - and a sometimes funny one - about how we let handphones , call-waiting and answering machines run our lives .  the problem : denise calls up is a movie about an idea .  a darn good one , but still an 80 minute-long idea .  and despite salwen's attempt at plots and sub-plots , despite some genuinely funny moments , you can predict the movie's outcome within the first fifteen minutes .  you get the drift after a series of shots of characters explaining over the phone why they all couldn't make it for a party - nobody is going to be meeting anybody in this film , they would rather be talking on the phone .  here's salwen's plot : while all the characters are in a dysfunctional , telefixated limbo , loud quirky stranger denise calls up martin to announce that she is pregnant with his child , courtesy of the sperm he donated to the local bank .  as martin progresses from slamming the phone on her to long phone conversations over the baby's name , his friends - and his friends' friends - get involved , courtesy of call-waiting and double-lines .  in the tigher and more tantalizing sub-plot , barbara and jerry are set up on a blind date that neither turns up for .  both profess to have too complicated schedules to ever meet , but they get it going over the phone .  with repeated phone sex comes a glitch ; what if the other person is simply faking it ?  denise calls up scores with some inspired moments .  mousy barbara metamorphoses into a vamp over her cordless , everyone shares the excitement of denise's delivery through a conference call to her handphone , and barbara's best friend gale is killed in a car accident while taling animatedly into another friend's answering machine .   ( as gale's overly-chatty aunt recounts , her cordless was knicked into her ear and lodged in her brain . )  but these moments are not enough to sustain the movie .  the pace sags , the dialogue drags and not much acting appears to be required of the telephone-touters .  and the ending is literally a non-event as expected , everyone is too chicken to turn up for the party frank throws in gale's memory despite promising over the phone that they will .  we get the point .  the movie appears to be intent on flogging its terribly-'90s statement until they have it coming out of your ears .  pun intended .  there's even a on the movie's web site where you can win cellular phones ( as if we haven't had enough of these things already ) .  watch the movie only if you find it philosophy compelling enough for a earful .  the flying inkpot's rating system : * wait for the video .   * * a little creaky , but still better than staying at home with gotcha !   * * * pretty good , bring a friend .   * * * * amazing , potent stuff .   * * * * * perfection .  see it twice .  
 " book " should have remained in shadows  book of shadows : blair witch 2  a film review by michael redman copyright 2000 by michael redman  certain things in our lives are inevitable .  death , sorrow , love , heartbreak , pain , joy .  we expect these events .  we know they're going to happen and some , we even look forward to .  it's part of the human condition .  we have also become accustomed to inevitable occurrences in our society .  as we near the fall election , several of them are hitting us in the face .  politicians exaggerate their own importance .  our side is always right ; theirs is always wrong .  in the end , voters are usually forced to choose the lesser of two whocares .  in hollywood the one indisputable inevitable is that if a film makes big money , there will be a sequel .  even if the original story doesn't merit one .  even if the first film is complete in itself .  even if success is a fluke .   " the blair witch project " was made with a budget of $1 . 75 and exploded on the screen , raking in huge profits .  the concept was brilliant .  the filmmakers created a remarkable buzz that the story might be real .  the film itself was even more convincing .  the movie _must_ be authentic .  why else would such amateurish footage be on the big screen ?  the first film caught lightning in a bottle .  the sequel proves you can't pour that old lightning into a new bottle .  you have to give this effort some credit .  it would have been easy to have made the same movie again with a new group of kids .  it would have been easy , but of course , it wouldn't have worked .  instead " book of shadows " acknowledges the first film as a movie and concentrates on the hysteria following its release .  it's a great scheme and possibly the only entertaining way to do a sequel .  unfortunately it doesn't work either .  five kids spend the night in the woods at the scene of the first film .  weird stuff happens and they retreat to an old factory where one of them lives .  even weirder stuff happens .  some people die , there's blood and knives and none of the characters have a lick of common sense .  while supposedly doing serious research , the group sets up a circle of surveillance cameras in the ruins of the old house in the woods and vows to stay alert all night awaiting a visitation .  then they proceed to get totally trashed on drugs and alcohol and party down with very loud , very obnoxious heavy metal music .  it's a bad plan .  the cast shows some early promise .  a couple is doing research on a " blair witch " book .  the tour guide is a former mental patient turned ebay aficionado .  a goth amazon princess adds a bit of comedic relief .  the obligatory hot babe is the 2000 spiritual cinematic descendent of the cute hippie chick , the cute rock and roll chick and the cute disco chick : the cute wiccan chick .  the first film's unaccomplished actors came across as real people in a real situation because hours and hours of video were shot during days in the woods .  this time , these unaccomplished actors just come across as unaccomplished actors .  there's not one character you care about when they start shouting for no reason .  although what passes for a plot starts out with a solid idea , it's ruined by poor execution .  the follow-up to one of the most successful horror films ever is nothing more than a bad slasher movie .  they're trapped in an old big weird house .  they stupidly separate into various rooms .  there are strange noises , they see scary apparitions and people disappear .  ever see this movie ?  seasoned documentary director joe berlinger should know better .  the film features mostly cheap tricks and unnecessary gore .  for a storyline filled with surprises , it's oddly predicable .   " the blair witch project " was a rare triumph of style over substance .   " the book of shadows " is a triumph of tedium over promise .  
warren beatty , diane keaton , goldie hawn and gary shandling star as a pair of married couples whose complacent lives are about to be shaken up in director peter chelsom's version of the classic romantic , screwball comedy in " town & country . "  the drawing room farce of the 30's dealt with sexual innuendo and relied on wit and a great deal of commotion and noise to place the viewer in the thick of the duplicitous romantic action .  back then , impossibly wealthy scions of society , with too much free time , would get themselves wrapped up in all sorts of sexual peccadilloes with spouses and lovers , only to have everything come out all right in the end - see " the philadelphia story " for a great farce .   " town & country " has the impossibly wealthy protagonists with too much free time - the kind of people that have jobs but never seem to work - and sexual misconduct on several levels .  but , there is almost no life to original script by michael laughlin and buck henry and this is " t&c's " downfall .  there is , obviously , a great deal of hollywood talent , in front of and behind the camera , involved in " town & country , " but , without a likable or , at least , interesting story to carry through their efforts , it is all for naught .  and , that's what we get here - naught .  porter stoddard ( beatty ) is a high-powered new york architect with a very good life indeed .  his 25-year marriage to ellie ( diane keaton ) appears , on the surface , to be perfect .  but , there are cracks just below this pristine surface .  his wife is suspicious of his whereabouts , his kids don't need him and his best friends , griffin ( garry shandling ) and mona ( goldie hawn ) , are in the midst of a divorce .  porter tries to get control of his life before it is too late , but like a man fighting against quicksand , his struggle just sinks him deeper .  at the 90-minute mark of " town & country " i asked myself , " what's the point ? "  i wasn't entertained , i laughed three times - over silly little pratfalls - and spent most of the film marking time 'til the end .  warren beatty wanders around with his character in a bewildered fog , making problems for himself by thinking with a part of his anatomy other than his head .  keaton's ellie is an empty headed flake who can't see the obvious as porter screws around on her .  and , as you get to know them , who would want friends like griffin and mona ?  the supporting cast is given nothing to do and , sometimes , does harm to the film , given the material they are forced to use .  nastassja kinski plays a cellist with whom porter has a fling .  the actress , who has , eerily , failed to age over the years , is miscast as the air-headed musician and the character doesn't belong , anyway .  jenna elfman is a sweet , but smart , ditz who joins porter and griffin on one of their tacked on misadventures .  andie macdowell is absolutely painful to watch as a wealthy heiress ( is there any other kind in this movie ? )  who comes on to porter .  the saving grace is a pair of quirky perf's by charlton heston and marian seldes as macdowell's very strange parents .  glib rationalization of infidelity , like , " if he doesn't speak english , it doesn't count , " are a staple for the screenplay .  the morality of the film seems to be , if you can get away with it , go for it .  the cast of characters are mostly people you wouldn't want to know , never mind befriend .  the actors do their best , but are hamstrung by the weak material .  helmer chelsom , who made the outstanding , offbeat comedy " funny bones , " is mired in the mess of a script and never puts his imprint on " town & country . "  the production values are high , as one expects from a big budget hollywood film .  but , the opulent sets by caroline hanania , lavish wardrobes by molly maginnis and top-notch photography by william fraker cannot save " town & country . "  the film has had a long list of production and distribution problems and it might have been better , for me anyway , if hollywood just said no to this movie .  i give it a d .  
the crown jewel of 1970's irwin allen disaster movies , the poseidon adventure features an all-star cast including gene hackman and ernest borgnine spouting some of the most laughable dramatic dialogue in movie history while trapped on a cruise ship .  the story begins on the u . s . s .  poseidon's big new year's cruise , where we are introduced to the ensemble of people who will soon be the only passengers left alive .  let's see , there's the new age preacher ( hackman ) who advises people to " pray to that part of god within yourself . "  there's the ex-cop ( borgnine ) who busted a hooker ( stella stevens ) six times -- then married her .  there's the hippie singer ( " there's got to be a morning after . . . " ) who turns to the company of a lonely man ( red buttons ) once her brother is killed .  and to round out the group : the elderly couple ( jack albertson and shelley winters ) who live aboard the ship , the beautiful teenage girl and her brother who are sailing alone and adventurous scotsman roddy mcdowall .  we get to know these people a little too well in the first thirty minutes of the poseidon adventure , before straight- faced ship captain leslie nielson looks in horror at the giant tidal wave headed right for the ship .  everyone's in the giant ballroom at the time , shortly past midnight of the new year , when the ship turns first on its side , then completely upside down .  the second- in-command wants everyone to wait in the ballroom until help arrives , but rebel hackman leads his small band of followers on a quest to the top of the ship .  in this case , because the ship is overturned , the top is the bottom .  or is the bottom the top ?  either way , we get to see a lot of bottoms because the two beautiful women in the crew are both conveniently wearing hot pants during the scenes where the camera shoots upwards while they climb up ladders and -- in the ballroom scene -- christmas trees .  thus begins an hour or more of hushed trips down long corridors , through burning rooms , etc . while the ship slowly fills with water behind them .  it's a race against the clock which is only mildly interesting .  the poseidon adventure works more as a bad movie to laugh at , with all the melodrama that comes in-between the non-thrilling action scenes .  the one note in borgnine's one-note performance is to be a cranky old man that argues with hackman every step of the way while buttons and the hippie fall in love ( although since there isn't a sex scene , we never find out if his buttons really are red ) and albertson and winters wonder if they'll live to see their grandson's birth .  shelley winters provides the most hilarious scene in the movie in a scene toward the end , where water has flooded the next two rooms of the ship and hackman is preparing to dive under with a rope for the rest of them to pull along .  winters , who has been the whiny fat woman throughout the movie ( stevens even not-so- affectionately calls her " fatass " in one scene ) , finally finds her purpose .   " i was the underwater swimming champ of new york three years running when i was seventeen , " she brags , and before hackman can even ask her how she could be seventeen for three years , she's swimming through the water , her skirt billowing up around her hips , showing off her cellulite ( or do you call it shellulite ? )  ridden thighs .  it's not so much funny as innately disgusting , which pretty much sums up the poseidon adventure as a whole .  
while watching loser , it occurred to me that amy heckerling's true genius as a film-maker is casting .  in fast times at ridgemont high , she gave us sean penn's jeff spicoli ; in look who's talking , she turned bruce willis into a wise-cracking baby and provided john travolta with is first career revival ; in clueless , she found a star vehicle for the adorableness that is ( or was ) alicia silverstone .  she seems to understand instinctively how to find performers the audience will like in spite of their flaws .  unfortunately , she may also be starting to understand that she understands .  giving appealing actors an appealing script creates likeable movies .  giving appealing actors a script in which their appeal _is_ the movie makes for unexpectedly awful films like loser .  naturally , heckerling makes her protagonist an all-around swell guy .  paul tannek ( jason biggs ) is a small-town boy who gets a scholarship to nyu , then instantly finds himself an island of compassion and diligence in the cold-hearted big city .  paul is the kind of guy who gives up his seat on the subway to an elderly woman ; his roommates adam ( zak orth ) , chris ( tom sadoski ) and noah ( jimmi simpson ) are the kind of guys who blast their music and let their waterbeds leak all over paul .  paul is also the kind of guy who adores girls from afar , in this case the lovely dora diamond ( mena suvari ) .  dora has problems of her own , including a shortage of funds to pay her tuition and a relationship with a professor , edward alcott ( greg kinnear ) , that's more than slightly one-sided .  they're two conscientious kids who love animals and homeless people , so clearly they belong together , even if paul is a loser .  i must confess that , for a while , i was suckered in by heckerling's casting .  jason biggs is an engaging performer whose unconventional looks make him even easier to embrace ; suvari is a coquette with an undercurrent of intelligence .  they're pleasant enough to watch , and heckerling gives us plenty of scenes establishing how nice they are and how nice their respective antagonists aren't .  then it gradually becomes clear that there's virtually nothing to loser but scenes of that sort .  in theory , loser is a romantic comedy , but there is scarcely a laugh to be found in the entire film ( notable exception : a cameo by a scene-stealing comic actor as a video store clerk ) .  instead of taking any time to make the characters' situations funny , heckerling spends 98 minutes making her characters' situations pathetic .  she shows none of the ear for quirky dialogue that sparked clueless , nor any of that film's interest in lively plotting ( not surprisingly , since clueless's plot came via jane austen's emma ) .  she simply turns the film into a pity party .  since loser is a film composed almost entirely of establishing character , you might think that those characters would be interesting , or at least slightly complicated .  instead , you have people either so perfect or so unredeemable that there's no reason to watch them .  paul isn't just a nice guy , he's flawless ; consequently , he's a central character who does absolutely no growing .  his roommates aren't just inconsiderate , they're actively evil-blackmailing professor alcott , drugging women with rohypnol and generally giving humanity a bad name .  and professor alcott isn't just manipulative , he turns dora into his house slave .  dora's unthinking devotion to alcott is the only whiff of basic human frailty to be found in loser , and even that isn't explored in sufficient detail .  there's more ambiguity in the 30-second snippet from alan cumming's broadway performance as the emcee in cabaret then there is in the rest of loser it's one thing to turn supporting characters into comic exaggerations ; it's another to flatten your leads into easily digestible mush .  and it would help if those comic exaggerations were somehow . . .  i don't know . . .  comic .  still , i spent much of the film holding out the ridiculous hope that heckerling would somehow salvage loser from its tedium and justify my desire to like paul and dora .  that hope dissolved the moment heckerling underscored a sequence of paul in the throes of unrequited love to simon and garfunkel's " scarborough fair/canticle . "  instead of giving the sequence a knowing wink-a reference to the graduate , a hint that paul is becoming an overly-sensitive clich-heckerling plays it deadly straight .  even in the scenes that scream for a light comic touch and a bit of a poke at her protagonist's foibles , she finds it impossible to stray from the gospel of paul as saint .  clueless's cher had her self-absorption and manipulative tendencies to balance her cuteness .  in loser , amy heckerling shows a leaden hand with material that demands friskiness ( her one show of wit involves naming paul's dorm " hunt's hall " after erstwhile bowery boy huntz hall ) .  her gift with casting proved to be her curse .  loser may be a crashing bore , but gee , aren't those two kids swell ?  
capsule : john the baptist is sent from heaven to see is the world is worth saving .  he must find some sign of hope in the people of newfoundland .  this is little more than a tv skit in movie form .  it is watchable and apparently will be released to theaters in canada , but it is unlikely to be seen on the international market .  it is diverting but hardly a serious piece of cinema .   , 0 ( -4 to +4 ) minor spoilers in this review .  - written and directed by john w . doyle .  - john the baptist sent to st . john , newfoundland .  gets an invitation to live with a family .  that extraordinary hospitality for some reason does not count as a reason for hope .  - script has a lot of holes .  - friend who adopts john is surprisingly militant and is planning actions to destabilize wall street .  - john does look middle eastern , but somehow one expects john the baptist to be more dramatic .  - there is a conspiracy in the vatican riding on the result of the visit , though that result seems small compared to the end of the world .  - big yucks like seeing a nun give the pope a pedicure and evil pope's aid praying to a mendes goat .  - in large part a satire of life in newfoundland taking licks at things like the poor produce .  the one good tomato in grocery ( by virtue of a miracle ) " must have fallen off the truck to toronto . "  - based on a 20-minute short film .  
the " disney stick-to-what-you-do-best " rule states that disney's animated features will invariably be sublime but whenever they try their hand at live-action kids' entertainment , they will fail miserably .  this goes double for occasions when they try to make a live-action adaptation of a popular cartoon ( remember the 1996 version of 101 dalmations ?  i'm still trying to forget ) .  that rule proves more dependable than ever with inspector gadget , an insulting , despicable and , worst of all , expensive piece of trash trying to pass itself off as a viable children's film .  it will bore anyone over five and should prove unbearable for adults , even at its relatively skinny running time of 80 minutes .  it's films like this that make me want to go to my local blockbuster and rent something from the days when brains were more important than budgets and wit compensated for lack of fancy effects .  just as matthew broderick began to convince me that there is hope for him as an actor yet , his career takes a nosedive to hell with his " role " as john brown , a depressed security guard with a big heart who hopes that one day he can become a real policemen and help the people around him .  he dreams of heroic deeds and the subsequent admiration of his long time crush , dr . brenda bradford ( joely fisher ) .  but after a few bizarre coincidences it seems that he has to dream no longer .  john breaks every bone in his body while trying to save dr . brenda's father .  dr . brenda has been working on a " gadget project , " which would make a half-man half-machine super-policeman to fight crime .  feeling indebted to john she decides to save his life by making him the subject , realizing his dream of becoming a policeman .  now , when he says " go go gadget [insert name of gizmo here] " he can use all kinds of nifty gadgets to capture crooks , bang up bandits and mangle murderers .  in the meantime , the evil claw ( rupert everett ) , the man responsible for the murder of the good doctor's father is building a gadget of his own : a carbon copy of our inspector gadget except evil and john brown's worst nemesis .  claw has plans of world domination , which leaves it up to the inspector and his gadget mobile ( voice of d . l .  hughley ) to save humanity from his wrath .  state of the art effects fly at a mad pace in this $90 million dollar movie and yet director david kelogg never sets up a convincing atmosphere .  had they replaced all the fancy gizmos with dollar bills they would have wound up with the same effect .  what we see on the screen is like the raw ingredients of a meal : all of the expensive f/x amounts to nothing .  part of the charm of the tv series was its sly irreverence which has gone down the toilet in the condescending movie .  can kids really admire a hero so goody-two-shoes that he screams " hey !  you ran a stop sign ! "  while hanging off the back bumper of a quickly moving vehicle ?  i think that today's children will respond better to somebody dashing , someone ultra-cool .  they ( probably ) receive enough preaching from their parents and its an insult to their intelligence to assume that they want to go to an action movie to see a father figure kick butt .  in addition to the more complex complaints above , there's also the simple stuff : inspector gadget is boring , formulaic and achingly implausible .  there's no feeling that the director really cares about his story : more than any other film i've seen this year , this one really feels like it was made on an assembly line .  there's a popular commercial ( for sprite , but that's irrelevant ) running in movie theaters before features that spoofs the way major studios deal with projects .  it consists of studio suits discussing a fictitious ( thank god ) movie called " death slug " .  each executive gleefully presents a different merchandise tie-in ( slug taco !  slug on a stick ! ) .  at the end one of them asks " what about the movie ? "  another answers : " well , we don't have a script yet , but we can bang one out by friday . "  they probably could have replaced " death slug " with inspector gadget .  this film contains the sort of logical contradictions and blatantly obvious adherence to formula that could have been eliminated had any attention been payed to the script .  it's no coincidence that most good children's entertainment these days comes from animation .  animated features take so long to maker that it becomes a labor of love for the filmmakers and they put care and pride into their work .  these kinds of films are banged out quicker and a good percentage turn out worthless , sloppy and impersonal .  the studios are becoming factories and films their assembled products .   ? 1999 eugene novikov&#137 ;  
as the twin surfer dudes , stew and phil deedle , lay bandaged and unconscious in the hospital , phil comes to first and chooses the coolest way to wake his brother .  yanking out his iv , he uses it like a water pistol to soak his brother's face .  this bit of lame physical humor is typical of disney's meet the deedles , a movie more to be endured that watched .   ( i stopped looking at my wife during the screening , since every time i did , she'd start sticking her finger in her throat .  and she's right , it is that bad . )  directed without any imagination by steve boyum , whose long background in film is mainly in stunts and in second unit direction , the film limps along at best .  boyum attempts to keep the pace moving by staging stunts , stunts and more stunts .  amazingly for someone with his background , he seems incapable of finding any fresh ones , and we have a car go off the road five different times -- maybe more .  but who's counting ?  and then there is the script by james herzfeld , whose only other film , tapeheads from a decade ago , was so awful that it is considered a cult classic .  meet the deedles , however , is painfully bad rather than laughably bad .  it will probably be in and out of the theaters like a tornado and is in no danger of becoming a classic anything .  herzfeld treats us to gratingly abysmal dialog that includes " your geyser's a geezer , " and " i'd like to put a deedle in her haystack . "  as the movie opens , the twins , who at one point describe themselves modestly as " a walking kodak moment , " are celebrating their 18th birthday .  as they ride a parasail high above the waters of waikiki , a truant officer pursues them on his jet ski .  as heirs to the fabulous fortune of the deedle empire , the boys are sent by their father to camp broken spirit at yellowstone to transform the two laid-back beach bums into men .  as they arrive in their wetsuits in yellowstone , they've got their surfboards , skateboards , and a hawaiian drink machine the size of an armoire .  their camp has gone out of business , but they are mistaken for new park rangers .  the rest of the movie has them fighting the park's overpopulation of prairie dogs as well as a deranged ex-ranger , played by dennis hopper , who is out to stop old faithful before its billionth birthday celebration , scheduled for later in the week .  hopper , who has made some wonderful movies , carried away being a recent favorite , does have a propensity for choosing some truly odoriferous material .  this isn't his worst acting , but meet the deedles is arguably the worst movie he's ever been in .  steve van wormer and paul walker , as stew and phil , give lifeless performances .  the only actor in the movie with any demonstrable talent is a cute little prairie dog named petey .  even the cinematography by david hennings is so prosaic that it manages to make yellowstone look dull .  to add insult to injury , hennings is fond of inappropriate close-ups , which only serve to remind us of the inanity of the dialog .  put a ten-foot pair of lips on the screen , and you naturally pay extra attention to what is said .  although boyum says in the notes that he is proud that his film is appropriate for families , one wonders how many skateboarders will attempt the movie's stunt of lying on your back on a skateboard while negotiating a busy and twisting mountain road .  they make it look like so much fun that i'm sure many will try some variation of the stunt .   " how could this possibly be worst , " asks phil .  just when you suspect it can't , the movie takes a turn further downhill .  its low point may have you looking for an airline barf bag .  after phil's girlfriend digs up a big mount of moist soil , they suck in a long worm .  like the two dog lovers eating spaghetti in lady and the tramp , their lips finally meet in a kiss .  as they pull back , their faces are full of the dirt that encased the worm they have just ingested .  meet the deedles runs about an hour and a half .  it is rated pg for a little bathroom humor and would be acceptable for kids around 6 and up .  my son jeffrey and his friend nickolas , both almost 9 , gave the show * * * .  they both thought the scenes with petey were among their favorites .  nickolas also mentioned the scene in which the circus bear drives a jeep , and jeffrey especially liked the one in which the circus elephant was referred to as dumbo .  
'bicentennial man' is a family film without any external motive with the exception of providing the minimum dose of entertainment .  chris columbus , the director who gave you " mrs . doubtfire " , plays on sentimental strings and mushy dialogue to make his point .  based on the short story by isaac asimov , it is supposed to be a science fiction story about a robot who wants to be human , which as you can imagine is very difficult .  starting in a not too distant future the film concentrates on a wealthy family that buys an android to help them with the house and children .  soon this robot , called andrew ( robin williams ) shows abilities that makes his owner mr . martin ( sam neill ) very curious .  andrew is interested in art and music , he " enjoys " making clocks , which clearly shows that he has genuine emotions .  it shows out that because of a small failure in the " electrical circuits " and " positronic brain " andrew has accidentally gained a soul .  this makes him unique and his evil creators worried .  then mr . martin decides to teach andrew all the things he wasn't programmed to do .  soon andrew wants to leave the house in pursuit of freedom , destiny and love .  this film can be described as a disney version of blade runner , a film that still shines as the biggest gem in the crown of science fiction .  ever since that film , the subject of humanity still stands as one big controversy .  what makes us human ?  the thoughts ?  the emotions ?  is it possible to become human ?  at what point can we say to a robot " now you are one of us " ?  these are very tough questions that require a serious and thurral approach .  it is obvious that columbus didn't take them very seriously .  when you think about it , this film is not really meditating on the question " when is a robot no longer a machine , but a human being ? " , but tells a story about racial discrimination and lack of understanding .  andrew is so complex and emotional from the very beginning that the audience immediately accepts him as a human being , and only the society has troubles with it .  in other words , it is as far from reality as from the academy awards .  further more , there are other annoying problems .  to this day no serious filmmaker has dared to speculate about the future in more than 50 years from now .  this has not been done for obvious reasons , because the filmmakers are well aware of the fact that they lack the knowledge and imagination to perform such a difficult task .  columbus is the first to have crossed that line .  the result is , as you might imagine , primitive , unrealistic and incredibly disappointing effort .  the world is simply frozen in time .  neither the society , fashion , culture or values have changed over 200 years .  mom is still working at the kitchen , doing the dishes .  when you think back to the late 17th century and then compare it to the world we live in today , you'll see a slightly bigger difference .  i am not saying that everything should change .  it is unlikely that the human rights will change , but it's even more unlikely that there will not be any progress in science , technology and fashion .  i suppose it's possible to watch this as a some sort of bizarre fairytale , but it's really hard .  robin williams is hidden behind c and speaking in a robotic way .  as always he does a decent job , as does sam neill .  but it doesn't really matter .  it is the sentimentality and length that turns this picture into a tiresome experience .  pretty much like last year's " meet joe black " , this is a primitive and unresolved story which is presented with a splendor and professionalism that it doesn't deserve .  great actors and a talented crew have worked hard to achieve something that will be instantly forgotten .  when isaac asimov wrote this story , the future seemed far away and magical .  everything seemed possible .  now is the future of asimov's time , and we know that it is not as magical and perfect as it seemed a long time ago .  for the same reasons that the young generation of today can not be amazed by julius verne's " 20 000 leagues under the sea " , so can't we accept this story as a potential reality .  let us hope that next year's " a . i . "  will be more rewarding .  
in the continuation of warner brother's franchise , joel schumacher has successfully killed this cash cow .  what makes this film such a grand disappointment is the tremendous line up of talented people involved with the film .  avika goldsman's screenplay is such a cluttered mess that there is no suspense built from one scene to another .  this coming on the heals of such a marvelously written project as " the client " is such a shock that it gives rise to thoughts that the latter film was a fluke .  situations are developed and executed with no thought of reason other that to get the characters from one point to another .  this is most glaringly brought to point by the appearance of alicia silverstone's batgirl , who just happens to be alfred's niece .  the story of dr . victor freeze is told almost completely in dialogue as an afterthought .  while working on a cure for a tragic decease contracted by his wife , dr . freeze is injured during a cryogenic procedure , and becomes a man who can only survive in a sub zero environment .  now of course he has become a terrorist intent on turning the world into a frozen planet where only he can live .  now the logic of that little sub-plot escapes me .  if mr . freeze wanted to find a cure for his wife and bring her back from the brink of death , why would he want to have her live in a world with no warmth .  this is indeed a cold hearted man .  the development of poison ivy is no less contradictory .  she wants to breed a form of plant life that can defend itself like an animal .  she joins with mr . freeze in his plan to start a new ice age , destroying all animal life , therefore giving her plant creations no reason to have the defense mechanism she had been trying to breed into them .  the characters have no logic .  batman of course is no longer the dark knight of the earlier films .  now that he has an adoptive son in burt ward / robin , bruce wayne is trying to be a father figure , constantly spouting out homilies about family and relationships , while at the same time not really having any .  george clooney tries in vain to keep from rolling his eyes while reciting the dialogue given him .  to say that his performance is workman-like is to be generous .  his best performances are still on " e . r . " .  bruce wayne has the most unromantic evening with his girlfriend ( played by elle macpherson ) , that it brings into question bruce's latent homosexuality .  there is no spark and no passion ( as there was for nicole kidman's psychologist in " batman forever " ) between bruce and anyone other than alfred .  and even that relationship is very reserved .  robin comes off less charismatic that in the last film in the series .  now he's just a spoiled kid .  in " batman forever " , burt ward wanted to be batman's partner and friend .  now , robin is suffering from ego deficiency .  robin's attraction for poison ivy is not believable , except for a boy around the age of 15 .  his later flirtation with batgirl smacks of incest , even though they are not related in a traditional sense .  chris o'donnell , once considered a rising star , successfully burns up on reentry with this performance .  his robin needs nothing more than a good spanking .  the less said about alicia silverstone's performance the better .  this talented young actress reads her lines with all the aplomb of a dubbing actor for a godzilla film .  she was cast strictly for her commercial value and she knew it .  this brings us to the villains .  arnold scharzenegger walks through his part with all the concern of someone waiting for payday .  the most rediculous scene is during mr . freeze's imprisonment .  the guards are at least a foot taller that arnold and yet fall at his hand in one of the most unbelievable fights scenes caught on film .  it's almost as ludicrous as seeing michael jackson as a gang member .  umu thurman struts and coos her way through her part , showing a growing discomfort with her sex symbol status .  her poison ivy has all the come hither sex appeal of may west in " sextette " ( 1978 ) .  the only performances worthy of notice are pat hingle and michael gough .  these two seasoned veterans carry their scenes with a dignity sorely lacking from the rest of the film .  without going through the intricacies of the plot , there is one question that always comes to mind with this series ( except for the first " batman " ) , and that is how do these super villains manage to hire so many thugs only to abandon them at the final reel .  mr . freeze is introduced with a team of hockey playing hoodlums that seem to have stepped out of an old kiss music video .  every villain ( even the minor ones ) have to have a look , no one can be an individual with day glow paint on their face or some sort of elaborate costume .  with this film , warner brothers has succeeded in retrograding the series back to it's tv incarnation .  the only thing missing from the action scenes are the superimposed titles detailing the pows ! ,  gwaaaa's , and clang's associated with the old series .  you almost wonder if william dozier , producer of the tv series is collecting royalties from this film .  the special effects ( by john dykstra ) and production design ( by barbara ling ) are the primary stars of this film .  and it is a case of extravagance in the pursuit of nothing .  every set , from ivy's lair , the batcave , to freeze's hideout is set with enough neon and fiberglass to keep the epa in paperwork for years to come .  there is no one realistic set or set piece in the film .  everything is set for maximum exposure .  the special effects have that strange cartoon look that most rushed cgi effects have .  there are homage thrown in by dykstra and his team to gene warren and his work on " the time machine " ( the growing plant scene ) but these scenes are so wroth with glaring color and art that they are almost obscured .  joel schumacher has directed the film with no flair .  camera angles are poorly chosen rehashing set ups from the old tv series .  master shots pepper the action scenes , destroying any flow of kinetic quality they may have had .  mr . schumacher is a good director .  one just has to look back on the films " the lost boys " , " cousins " ( an underrated film ) and " the client " to know that .  but " batman and robin " comes off as a mated made for tv movie .  the film has no style of individuality .  it is the cinematic equivalent to jell-o , pretty to look at , but empty .  it is unfortunate that this film , even with it's surprisingly strong box office has succeeded in doing what warner's thought tim burton would do with the franchise .  kill it .  joel schumacher's " batman & robin " is loud , colorful , action packed , and ultimately . .  boring .  stars .  
long ago , films were constructed of strong dialogue , original characters , memorable plot points , and solid acting .  one of the best examples that hollywood now completely ignore these qualities is found in the new film where the heart is .  this opus about the power of love and the redemption of family follows the tragic , and i mean tragic , life of novalee nation ( natalie portman ) .  hitting the road with her hick , guitar-playing boyfriend in a rusted-out gm , novalee dreams of the blue skies of bakersfield and sipping chocolate milk beneath a plastic umbrella with her unborn baby , due in a month .  stopping off at a nearby wal-mart for a quick rest , novalee's boyfriend decides to take off and leaves her there .  novalee then decides to secretly hole up in the wal-mart ( because she's not the brightest bulb in the stagelights ) .  a wacky librarian ( keith david ) comes to her rescue when she goes into labor one night while she is camped in the outdoors section of the store .  then the she moves in with a family , befriends everyone in town -- including ashley judd's character ( who has five kids and still can work part-time as a nurse ) -- fights off religious freaks , survives a tornado , breaks the heart of the wacky librarian that saved her , receives an inheritance , builds a martha stewart-esque house , becomes an award-winning photographer , and manages to always look like she stepped out of a cosmo shoot , all while not once doing anything with her kid .  this film is terrible .  the directing is awful : it seems director matt williams had an index card with six angles written on it and used every one of them , over and over and over again .  we get pathetic and ugly acting by natalie portman , who can do good work .  a disjointed pacing of key scenes and a time structure so confusing that it would throw steve prefontaine off .  a subplot that actually validates the actions of the boyfriend who abandoned novalee in the wal-mart parking lot .  an embarrassing display of emotions by the characters , making the audience ill .  taking two great comedic screenwriters , babaloo mandel and lowell ganz , and forcing them to write drama on par with oprah's book club .  altogether , it has the feeling of being trapped at home , watching a very bad television mini-series and wishing it to end , only the remote is broken .  however , the main problem with the film is that it never answers the most poignant question brought up : where is the heart ?  no one ever seems to find it in this piece of junk .  
stars : armand assante ( mike hammer ) , barbara carrera ( dr .  charlotte bennett ) , laurene landon ( velda ) , alan king ( charles kalecki ) , geoffrey lewis ( joe butler ) , paul sorvino ( detective pat chambers ) , judson scott ( charles hendricks ) , barry snider ( romero ) , julia barr ( norma childs ) / mpaa rating : r / review :  in the 1982 updating of mickey spillane's 1947 novel " i , the jury , " hard-boiled detective mike hammer is a vietnam vet who drives a shiny bronze trans am , dresses like don johnson in " miami vice " with less pastels , and has sworn off alcohol .  however , he still smokes his lucky strikes , detests all forms of authority , and kills at a whim .  beyond that , the updated film retains little or no resemblance to the original pulpy page-turner by spillane , probably the most infamous and often reviled of all mystery writers .  the movie starts off with a bang : a howler of an opening credits sequence that is a cheap steal from the james bond series , complete with cheesy graphics and an overbearing jazz score by bill conti ( " rocky " ) .  after that , the movie and the book begin the same , with the murder of jack williams ( frederick downs ) , a one-armed detective and hammer's best friend .  hammer declares that he will seek vengeance for jack's death , and with the help of his devoted secretary , the blond and shapely velda ( laurene landon ) , and the alternately friendly / antagonistic police chief pat chambers ( paul sorvino ) , he is immediately on the killer's trail .  here the movie splits completely from the book , and dives into a convoluted and improbable tale of government conspiracy and mind control tactics involving the mafia , the cia , one of hammer's vietnam vet buddies , and a kinky sex clinic .  many of the same characters from the book appear in the movie , but they take on slightly different roles .  for instance , charles kalecki ( alan king ) , a numbers runner and narcotics dealer in the book , turns into a suave mob boss .  and , more importantly , hammer's suspicious love interest , charlotte bennett ( barbara carrera ) , morphs from a run-of-the-mill psychiatrist into the coordinator and founder of the sex clinic .   " i , the jury " is one of several cinematic renditions of spillane's books ( including a 1953 version which was made in 3-d ) , but this film differs from those earlier versions in one major way : it includes all of the sex and violence spillane wrote about that could never be given screen treatment due to hollywood's production code .  although this takes the 1982 version of " i , the jury " closer to the core of the original subject matter , it is in this aspect that the film received the most criticism , because it took this new license to extremes that many argued surpassed what was in the book .  rest assured , the movie not only includes a great deal of nudity , but it is thoroughly violent , especially toward women .  it features one woman having her neck slashed , a set of twins forced to strip before being stabbed to death by a psychotic sexual deviant programmed by the cia ( judson scott ) , and another woman shot point-blank in the belly by hammer himself .  no one would deny that spillane's writing has a definite misogynistic nature , but the movie seems to take it a step further by giving it such glorious screen treatment ; its constant equation of sex and violence , much of which is played with the intention of being erotic , is quite unsettling .  it's no surprise that the movie , like the book , fades to black with a dead woman on the floor .   " i , the jury " had a troubled production and was not well-supported by the studio that made it , which is one explanation why it didn't do well in theaters and many people have forgotten that it was ever made .  the script was written by larry cohen , who is best known for his creatively cheesy but nonetheless effective monster movies , like " it's alive " ( 1974 ) and its two sequels , " q " ( 1981 ) , and " the stuff " ( 1985 ) .  cohen wrote the script thinking he was going to helm the project as well , but he was yanked from the director's chair after only a week's worth of shooting because he was already $100 , 000 over budget .  he was quickly replaced by richard t . heffron , who has worked for the last three decades on a handful of undistinguished movies and dozens of television projects .  heffron was obviously brought in not for his talent , but because he could make the movie rapidly and efficiently .  it shows in the final product .  cohen had personal interest in the updated version of hammer , but heffron has none .  he shot the movie quickly and clumsily , and although some scenes ring true , most of them are flat , trite , and invariably dull .  the movie features numerous car chases , shoot-outs , and stunts , but heffron's background in television is the dominant tone ; despite the graphic violence and full-frontal nudity , " i , the jury , " takes on the air of a made-for-tv quickie , with no real punch or depth .  but the problems in " i , the jury " run deeper than the technical .  the central fault in this updating is mike hammer , whose character was lost in the shuffle while updating from the fifties to the eighties .  because spillane wrote all his hammer mysteries in the first person , hammer's character is central to the tale because all the events are filtered through his persona .  we never really get that impression in the movie -- there is no first-person voice-over narration and some scenes don't have hammer in them at all .  consequently , a great deal of the texture of spillane's storytelling is lost .  the period updating turns out to be a detrimentally bad idea because much of hammer's moral code is thrown to the wind .  despite his characterization as a hard-nosed , violent , misogynistic killer , hammer always stuck fervently to his own moral code .  the title itself , " i , the jury , " refers to his anti-establishment notion of being his own law .  unlike private eyes who seek out the bad guys and then turn them over the police , hammer both pursues the criminal and exacts the punishment .  in this way , he can be seen as " above the law , " but he still adheres strictly to her own personal code of conduct , his own morality .  the movie forgoes that aspect of his character , and hammer comes off not only as amoral in society's terms , but in any terms , especially his own .  if anything , hammer always had his professionalism , but the movie does away with that in the first three minutes by showing him rolling in the sack with the wife of a client who had paid him to find out if that wife was being unfaithful .  maybe the scene was intended for laughs , but it only cheapens hammer's character and is , by all accounts , a lousy way to start the movie .  the blame for hammer's character can't be laid on assante's shoulders , because despite some unnecessary marlon brandon-like mumbling , he delivers a fine performance .  spillane never once described hammer's physical attributes in any of the dozen books in which he appeared , so any actor could conceivably portray him .  of course , because of the lack of written description , those who have read spillane's books will have a strong personal notion of what hammer looks like , and therefore almost any screen incarnation will somehow fall short of expectations ( spillane , who played the character himself in 1963's " the girl hunters , " is generally considered the best of the film hammers ) .  the rest of actors are most un-noteworthy .  with the exceptions of alan king and paul sorvino , everyone who appeared in " i , the jury " were up-and-comers who basically went nowhere .  many of them ended up working in television ( like carrera , who had a short stint on " dallas " in the mid-eighties ) , which only adds to the made-for-tv atmosphere of the film .  maybe someday , someone will manage to get the right elements together and make an effective film rendition of a spillane book , but this is certainly not it .  
nostalgia for the 70s continues , as we see a revival of one of the decade's greatest achievements : the marijuana comedy .  however half baked doesn't quite run with all its brain cells , and will make you appreciate the questionable talents of cheech and chong all the more .  the plot follows the misadventures of four ne'er-do-well stoners .  there's the group's unofficial leader , thurgood ( david chappelle ) , scarface ( guillermo diaz ) , brian ( jim breuer ) , and kenny ( harland williams ) .  kenny gets into trouble , when , while on a munchie run , feeds his snack foods to a diabetic police horse .  when the animal keels over , he finds himself accused of killing a police officer , and facing a $1 , 000 , 000 bail .  his friends promise to raise money for a 10% bail bond , but have no idea how .  that is , until thurgood stumbles upon a stash of pharmaceutical marijuana being tested at the company where he works as a janitor .  soon the three guys are dealing dope to raise funds , while avoiding the cops and rival dealer sampson simpson ( clarence williams iii ) .  for a comedy , the film is pretty humorless .  not that it doesn't try . . . it's  just that the comic setups are obvious and the payoffs nearly all fall flat .  the four leads are nearly all playing the same character .  only williams stands out ( while still performing on the level of his humor-free comedy rocket man ) , but that is because he's imprisoned throughout most of the film , giving a much needed change of pace ( but mostly swapping one set of obvious gags for another ) .  to help out , the film is packed full of cameos .  steven wright , tommy chong , janeane garofalo , willie nelson , snoop doggy dogg , and jon stewart all make appearances at one point or another .  none of them work , beyond the simple " hey , that's _____ " level .  in fact the funniest work in the film comes from chappelle .  not as his bland pothead lead , but in his second role , as a pot-obsessed rapper , sir smokealot .  granted , it's pretty much a one-joke role , and there aren't a ton of laughs . . . but this film needs every one it can scrape up .  to top it off , and in a move contrasting with the tone of the rest of the film , thurgood is given a love interest , mary jane ( rachel true ) .  her role is that of the public service announcement : to inform us why doing drugs ( including pot ) is wrong .  her character seems fabricated merely as a defense to the " your film promotes the use of drugs " camp .  the film would have been better off by sticking with the " rebel " tone it so eagerly tries to claim .  yet , in the end , it doesn't really matter .  watching the film clean and sober , you are bound to recognize how truly awful it is .  
i saw this film on christmas day expecting an upbeat comedy .  boy was i in for a christmas dissapointment !  after an hour of the movie , i was ready to change rooms-into another theater !  read on to see what i have to say . . . .  four rooms :  starring : tim roth , jennifer beals , antonio banderas , quentin tarantino , valeria golino , madonna , bruce willis , marisa tomei , alicia witt , lili taylor , and ione skye .  possible stars )   " four rooms " was supposed to be one of the biggest hits of the year .  key word here : " supposed . "  four of the biggest directors in hollywood : quentin tarantino , robert rodriguez , alexander rockwell , and alison anders were all directing one big film with a big and popular cast .  i guess it was all just too much because this turned out to be the biggest flop of the year and it could of been great .  the plot : it's new years eve and it's a bellboy's first day on the job .  he encounters many mysterious and kinky hotel guests as he tries to handle all his own problems .  tarantino told his directors this plot , and each of them wrote a script .  it turned out each of them had written a dark comedy .  anders wrote and directed the tale about a coven of witches ( madonna , valeria golino , alicia witt , and ione skye ) , which was the worst one out of all of them .  the second room ( jennifer beals ) was better , but lacking in plot .  this room was about a man who accuses every man of sleeping with his wife .  the third room ( antonio banderas ) was the best roomm , about two rambunctous kids that trash a hotel suite .  the final one ( tarantino , willis ) was about a movie star wanting the bellboy to chop off someone's finger .  the movie was just plain trash .  there was nothing here that even makes up a quality film .  it was not funny , and i didn't hear one laugh in the theater throughout the whole film .  tim roth is horrible as the bumbling and mumbling bellboy , and he ruins every joke in the film .  the supporting cast loses meaning to the word support and the only mentionable actors/actresses are antonio banderas and jennifer beals .  marisa tomei appears in a stupid cameo role .  this movie is the worst film of the year and the film could have been great , perhaps like a more upbeat " plaza suite , " but it wasn't .  as trashy as it was , some people will call it classic .  do you call a man chopping off a finger with madonna's chest showing a classic film ?  look for more of ken's kritic korner coming soon !  please check the newsgroups under the movie reviews section for updated reviews .  p . s . " four rooms " made number 1 on my top ten worst list of 1995 .  
anna and the king is at least the fourth film adaptation of margaret landon's fact based novel the king and i , and it's big , expensive and soulless .  though good-looking , its lavish sets , fancy costumes and luscious cinematography can do little to compensate for the emotional wasteland that is peter krikes and steve meerson's script .  so much money was spent on pretty pictures that they forgot to actually make the movie interesting .  this is jodie foster's first movie since the jaw-droppingly brilliant contact came out more than two years ago and it isn't the best choice to show off her acting chops .  she's trapped in the stoic role of anna leonowens , the uptight , widowed british schoolteacher who comes to siam ( now thailand ) with her son to instruct the king's ( chow yun-fat ) son in the ways of the west ( because " the ways of england are the ways of the world ) .  the king likes her so much he puts her in charge of educating the whole royal family ( 58 kids with 10 more in the way ; impressive , no ? ) .  the eldest prince is none too happy about this ( " father , have i offended you in some way ?  why do you punish me with imperialist schoolteacher ? ) , but soon gets to know anna and her stern- mother-who-loves-you personality better and comes to like her .  meanwhile , siam comes under attack from the neighboring british colony of burma .  the king and his close advisors suspect that this is britain's doing which arouses suspicion in siam , putting anna in an uncomfortable position .  she is not sure what to make of this and seems to herself suspect british involvement in the crisis but works to diffuse the king's prejudices .  he , though self-righteous as ever , can't help but be influenced by the eloquent anna and they slowly , quietly , develop affections for each other .  there is a scene in the middle of anna and the king where one of the king's younger daughters dies .  it's your classic deathbed scene , with the girl's mournful eyes staring at her father , who tries only semi- successfully to maintain his composure .  anna then comes in and cries a bit .  the sequence was there for a purpose : to evoke a strong emotional response from the viewer .  i'm usually a sucker for such scenes and yet this time , i was just sitting there , my emotions untouched .  this remains true through all of the movie which remains emotionally barren .  we never develop connections to the characters ; never given a reason to care .  this ludicrously long epic was directed by andy tennant , whose last film was ever after , one of my favorites of 1998 .  i do not doubt tennant's ability to put together a decent movie , but anna and the king , aside from being psychologically inept is also technologically deficient .  the sets and scenery are gorgeous , but the camerawork does nothing to convey its grandeur .  even terrence malick managed to do more with flora and fauna in his otherwise abysmal the thin red line than tennant can muster from $75 million worth of props and a shoot in malaysia .  we feel like the camera is restricted to its immediate point of view ; there are no wide tracking shots or sweeping zooms to fill us with larger-than-life awe .  i liked both foster and yun-fat , who give entertaining if not terribly involving performances in the two lead roles .  foster's generally stoic persona serves her well here , as she is playing a reserved , formal and rather underdeveloped character .  yun-fat is especially effective , perfectly conveying the king of siam's sangfroid permeated with violent outbursts .  what does anna and the king in is its inability to involve the viewer in its characters and situations .  the cast is great , the director is talented , and the budget is lavish , but this ill-advised remake of the classic rogers and hammerstein movie is unable to utilize any of those things to form a compelling whole .  this is an emotionless costume epic .  
robin hood : men in tights is another mel-brooks-produced film in the classic tradition of movies like blazing saddles and young frankenstein .  mel brooks is well known for his comic look at regular life , his fast paced dialogue and sharp wit .  unfortunately , robin hood : men in tights has none of the easy going humor of blazing saddles , none of the fun acting of young frankenstein , is devoid of the charm of spaceballs , and is even lacking the good , solid dialogue of history of the world .  it is , in short , one of the worst movies i have seen mel brooks , or anybody else , produce .  the plot borrows heavily from the well-received kevin costner movie of last year , robin hood : prince of thieves .  this is not surprising in and of itself , and could have been used to great comic effect , mainly by parodying scenes from the orginal movie .  mel brooks does not take advantage of this , however , and uses the film to launch several ideas into the air , none of which connect and none of which are explained later on .  the movie's scenes could be shuffled around in any order and one would be hard pressed to notice .  cary elwes , of princess bride fame , plays robin of loxley , a man who was captured in the crusades , fighting with king richard .  he escapes and , joining with a man named achoo ( i am sure you can see the obvious joke ) , fights in england to reclaim his name and the throne for richard , which has been captured by evil prince john , played by funny comic richard lewis .  he also tries for the love of maid marian and attempts to overthrow the evil " sheriff of rottingham " .  a good adventure plot that is sadly unused .  elwes and lewis are both excellent comics , but the dialogue in the movie is simply excruciating .  neither actor has any good words to work with , and the lines simply aren't funny , nor believable .  perhaps the worst example of this is when the group of merry men encounter a man playing a macaulay culkin clone from the hit movie home alone .  this particular scene is so out of place and so badly acted , and followed by so many other scenes of equal miserable ideas , that i really felt like leaving the theatre .  much of the audience continued to look at their watches throughout , and some left the theatre .  chuckles were few and far between , and they mostly dealt with visual jokes ( such as an old , beaten up horse from " rent-a-wreck " ) then from any dialogue whatsoever .  scenes that could have been classics , such as the archery contest , are ruined by poor acting .  perhaps the largest problem with the movie is that it is simply offensive .  the basic plot , that robin has received a key that will unlock the chastity belt of maid marian , is not witty nor funny .  mel brooks as a circumcision-giving rabbi is also offensive to me and others in the audience ( not all jewish , either ) .  the movie simply tries to hard trying to be funny and by and large fails .  the addition of a blind man who stumbles around , falling off cliffs , walking into ledges and being a general buffoon could have had some humorous potential , but is also made terribly offensive .  the only reason to see this movie is the surprise actor at the end who plays king richard .  he is well worth waiting for , if you can stand an hour and half of unfunny dialogue , excruciating visual humor , old puns , ancient jokes and bad acting .  if you can't , don't even bother watching this miserable film .  
with his successful books and movies , michael crichton is doing well .  with early successes with westworld ( 1973 ) and coma ( 1978 ) , and recent films such as jurassic park ( 1993 ) , his films have been entertaining .  however , he seems to taken a wrong turn somewhere with sphere .  this $100 million mess by good director barry levison ( disclosure ) is dull , long winded , and a huge disappointment .  considering the huge budget , the all star cast , and a story by crichton , sphere is majorly disappointing .  the film opens with norman goodman ( hoffman ) , a psychologist who thinks he is visiting an airplane crash to console the survivors .  however , when he arrives , he his told by supervisor barnes ( peter coyote ) that he is actually investigating an spacecraft .  along with goodman is mathematician harry adams ( jackson ) , biologist beth halperin ( stone ) and ted fielding ( liev schrieber . )  they investigate the spaceship , find a massive sphere inside , meet an alien intelligence called jerry , and basically weird crap happens .  unfortunately , something went wrong along the way with sphere .  the film starts off entertaining enough , but throughout this very long movie , it just gets sillier and sillier .  the film jaunts along from scene to scene , never fully explaining what is going on .  the actors and directing don't help , either .  hoffman is on autopilot ( and almost seems embarrassed ) throughout the movie , churning out dull lines , and probably wondering what the hell he is doing in this movie .  stone is useless , displaying no emotion , and fails to convince the audience that she has any feelings for hoffman .  the only person who seems to be having fun in this movie is jackson , who's funny as the mathematician who slowly goes crazy and entering the sphere .  but he's hardly in it , and by the end of the film he is just as dull as hoffman and stone .  the same goes for peter coyote , who hams it up as the officer , but is then killed off halfway through .  the director , barry levinson , who directed the better crichton adaptation disclosure ( 1994 ) messes up with the drama and the action .  the drama scenes are , quite frankly , boring , and the action scenes suffer from overkill , with levison throwing the camera all over the place ( much like the godawful speed 2 , 1997 )  the writing doesn't help much , either .  although crichton is great with plots , he's terrible with dialogue , and practically every line in sphere is a dud .  the speech is too simple , i was hoping it would be a bit more intelligent .  practically every line is just stating the obvious .  none of it is smart .  also , where the hell did the budget go ?  the sphere itself is impressive , and there's a few nice special effect shots , but where the $100 million went is anyone's guess .  there's a giant squid attack in the picture , but not once does the audience see the squid , even though the film has a massive budget .  i assume the picture was trying to build up tension by not showing the squid , and if handled correctly it probably would .  but the whole scene is done badly , and i was just hoping we could see the stupid squid .  finally , the film has no idea what genre to be .  levison can't handle his own plot .  it leaps from hokey sci-fi , to horror , and finally the shining/event horizon psychological thriller .  and , of course , the film is very much like the abyss ( 1988 ) , although in it's defense , crichton did write sphere before the abyss was released ( and is far superior to this rubbish . )  it's not all that bad though .  the plot is all right , there's a few jump scenes ( although nothing very scary ) and there's the occasionally interesting bit .  but overall , sphere is a big waste of some fine talent , a lot of money , and a potentially good movie .  not really worth seeing .  overall rating= review by david wilcock  
director luis mandoki's last film was the superb , serious 1994 drama " when a man loves a woman , " but his luck has ultimately run out with his latest picture , " message in a bottle , " which is the worst type of romance , a movie that tugs so relentlessly and violently at the heartstrings that it miraculously manages to dry out your eyes rather than tear them up .  everything that occurs can be telegraphed way in advance since this same type of story has been done many times before---and much better---so there's an absence of suspense , and the film ultimately moves at such a very , very deliberate pace , as if it is trying to make great , " meaningful " statements and plot developments , that it just becomes a tedious bore to sit through .   " message in a bottle " begins with theresa osborne ( robin wright penn ) , a single mother and researcher at the chicago tribune , whom finds a bottle washed up on shore as she is jogging one day .  inside the bottle is an anonymous love letter addressed to a mystery woman named catherine , and theresa is so taken aback by its honesty and sweetness that she shows it around at her work and , to her objection , finds that her editor has placed the letter in the newspaper .  soon , a heavy research is conducted to find out who wrote the letter based on the type of bottle and a ship logo on the top of the typed message , and after it is traced to a man named garrett blake , theresa finds herself traveling to the outer banks , a boating town in north carolina , to find out the specifics of the message .  of course , garrett turns out to be a handsome , rugged man around theresa's age and played by kevin costner .  she is immediately charmed by him , but hesitant to unveil the truth of why she is there , and finds that catherine was garrett's late wife who died a few years earlier .  do you think you know where this is headed ?  most likely you do , and i wouldn't call it giving away anything to say that by the picture's end , the movie has fallen into deep , artificial melodrama that i didn't buy for a second .  if there are any positive things to say about " message in a bottle , " it is that the performances by robin wright penn and paul newman , as garrett's stubborn , but loving father , are far above par to be in such a wasteful , " shaggy dog " love story , and that the cinematography by caleb deschanel takes great advantage of the beautiful eastern coast , and paints chicago as an equally alluring city .  meanwhile , costner has yet to redeem himself for some of the less-than-stellar films that he has made recently .  it seems that with such bad luck , he wouldn't want to make another movie set near water , but here he is again with one of the main , and most ridiculous , centerpieces set on a storm-swept sea .  the other actors are all , sadly , wasted , including illeana douglas , an underused actress who seems to always get stuck with the " friend " roles , here playing penn's confidante and co-worker at the tribune .  the first half of " message in a bottle " plays like a hum-drum , trite television movie for the lifetime channel , as theresa spends a great deal of time " getting to know " garrett , with dialogue that is not the least bit stimulating or entertaining .  usually , i am the type of person to practically salivate over dialogue-laden sequences since the film is no doubt trying to develop the characters and their relationships , but here it all rang with a resounding falseness since the dialogue felt " written , " and not as if people were really " talking . "  when the main characters of a film have very little of interest to say to each other , and are not particularly interesting themselves , you know immediately that you are in trouble .  i swear that while watching " message in a bottle , " i felt as if i had just read the screenplay in its entirety before arriving at the theater ( heck , in actuality i'm not even familiar to the novel this is based on , by nicholas sparks ) .  always one step ahead of the characters , the movie ran so closely and tightly to the constraints of the tried-and-true hollywood melodrama , the film strip often seemed to almost be in danger of tearing .  nobody wins prizes for guessing that garrett will eventually find out theresa's secret , and that several obstacles will come within their ways of living happily ever after .  this same exact problem occurred in last year's very , very similar ( watch this , and you will realize just how similar i mean ) meg ryan-nicolas cage romantic drama , " city of angels . "  although theresa is deeply touched by the " heartfelt " letter that she finds in the bottle , perhaps the filmakers might have been better off finding a message in a bottle of their own , preferably before filming began .  it should have read , " memo to screenwriters : use you brain ! "  
i remember really enjoying this movie when i saw it years ago .  i guess my memory really sucks .  there is very , very little that is funny in caddyshack .  the laughs are few , and far between , and what there are really aren't that great .  caddyshack , as the name implies , more or less centers on one young caddy working at an exclusive country club .  michael o'keefe plays said caddy .  why they cast this unknown , fairly untalented actor in the lead role is completely beyond me .  the movie doesn't seem to have a real plot , just a series of scenes that are little more than opportunities for the rest of the cast to mug at the camera .  the only real story , if you can call it that , was a subplot involving the mentally disturbed greens keeper , bill murray , who is having his own private little war against a gopher who is ruining the course .  most of the marginal laughs come from rodney dangerfield and ted knight mugging and overacting for the camera -- with painfully limited success .  bill murray is slightly amusing in places , but fairly wasted .  the biggest waste of all is chevy chase , who didn't even crack a smile on my face with his character's lame zen-like approach to golfing .  there are a few decent scenes involving the interaction between dangerfield and knight , but they are far too infrequent to carry the movie .  i guess that's what you get for basing a story around an unknown kid .  i'm not sure what the writers of this thing were thinking of , but i really think it was something far removed from comedy as they were putting pen to paper .  nothing about this movie works .  it wouldn't have taken a genius to figure out that this thing wasn't going to fly .  most of the scenes just couldn't possibly be funny .  it's as if the writers where off in their own little brain damaged world .  i'm sure scenes involving chevy chase and his oneness with the golf ball were supposed to be funny .  in reality , they were painfully embarrassing to watch .  there is a scene at the club pool where all the caddies go wild for the " hot babe " of the movie walking by in her bikini .  olive oil would have filled out this swimsuit better than this girl .  everything about this movie was just completely implausible as far as the comedy was concerned .  maybe if you were drunk out of you mind or high off some sort of illegal narcotic this thing might be funny .  but for the rest of us , stay the hell away from caddyshack .  
tommy lee jones chases an innocent victim around america who is trying to prove that she did not kill her spouse .  the fugitive ?  not quite ? this is the plot for double jeopardy , another fugitive copycat without the action , excitement , and good acting that the original had .  there are other slight differences besides one movie being bad and the other good ; this time tommy lee jones plays a parole officer not a us marshall , clever huh ?  oh and the fugitive ashley judd was framed by her own husband ( bruce greenwood ) who needed to collect two million dollars in life insurance money not a one armed man .  both movies are on video .  make the wise choice and pick the fugitive .  there are so many flaws in double jeopardy , it is laughable .  while serving time in prison , libby parsons ( judd ) discovers that she can never be charged for committing the same crime twice .  learning that her husband is still alive , she decides to serve her time in prison , find him , retrieve her son , and kill her husband if necessary .  when the strict parole officer travis lehman ( jones ) stands in her way , libby decides to break the rules ( who knows why ? ) and continue her plan , despite the fact that if she gets caught , she's going back to jail .  director bruce beresford spends way too much time trying to convince the audience that libby misses her son .  every other scene , we are given a shot of libby staring and crying at his picture .  in an action movie like this , valuable time wasted on these shots takes away more opportunities for libby to get up and do something .  all that is needed in this type of movie is a short scene in which libby tells herself or a friend " i miss my son . "  nothing more , nothing less .  dr . kimble of the fugitive didn't look at one picture of his dead wife , his primary concern was to save himself .  libby at times shows this same determination but not nearly enough .  ashley judd and bruce greenwood both are excellent actors but if they continue to do movies like this , they will be typecast for the rest of their careers , kind of like their doomed co-star tommy lee jones .  winning an oscar for the fugitive must have convinced jones that audiences will never get tired of his i-do-my-job-whether-they-are-innocent-or-guilty roles .  people still pay to see his movies and he makes plenty of money so i guess he was right .  though i don't think he will win another oscar again .  the ultimate mistake in the script is what eventually becomes of libby parsons .  even if she was excused for disobeying her parole officer , the number of other crimes she commits while on the run are too numerous to count .  burglary , assault , grand theft auto are some of libby's slipups .  the message of the movie is you can break all of the small laws as long as you're innocent of the major crime .  hopefully criminals won't use double jeopardy as a reference in court for why they are innocent .  that would just be plain stupid .  
while i am not fond of any writer's use of cheap , easy puns , i am not completely above using them myself when the situation merits it ( witness my review of _pecker_ from a couple of issues ago ) .  so here goes : the juvenile , college-set black comedy _dead_man_on_campus_ is dead on arrival .  strait-laced med student josh ( tom everett scott , who manages to remain somewhat likable throughout ) 's blemish-free academic record breaks out into fs , thanks to the influence of his ever-partying roommate , cooper ( mark-paul gosselaar ) , who introduces josh to the sex- and booze-filled nights that come with university life .  with the threat of losing an academic scholarship ( josh ) and a life cleaning toilets for his dad looming ( cooper ) , what are two good-hearted slackers to do ?  easy--look for a loophole , which they find in the form of an unbelievable rule in the school charter that states that if a student's ( or students' ) roommate commits suicide , the surviving student ( s ) shall receive straight as .  so instead of studying , josh and cooper attempt to seek out the most depressed student out there , move him into their dorm room , and drive him to suicide before the semester ends .  director alan cohn and screenwriters michael traeger and mike white ( working from a story by anthony abrams and adam larson broder ) take their sweet time to build the head of steam that comes with josh and cooper's diabolical plot .  until then , the usual boring cliches of college life ( booze , sex , more booze ) fill the time , which is made to feel longer by _saved_by_the_bell_ alumnus gosselaar's sitcom-bred mugging .  that said , once cohn and company do build some comic momentum , they mishandle it .  the introduction of the manic , psychotic cliff ( lochlyn munro ) , a potential roommate for josh and cooper , brings some demented life to the uninspired proceedings before being hastily written out in favor of two less interesting candidates : paranoid nerd buckley ( randy pearlstein ) and british death rocker matt ( corey page ) .  one wishes that cliff would reappear , but , as they say , be careful what you wish for .  not surprisingly , he does resurface , and it then becomes clear that this is a character that is best taken in a small dose ; almost immediately , his extended boorish and sociopathic antics loses its novelty .  the same can be said about all of _dead_man_on_campus_ .  whatever morbid appeal the far-fetched premise has quickly evaporates , and the self-absorbed characters , especially cooper , pretty much grate from the get-go .  _dead_man_ doesn't grow tiresome ; it already _is_ once the clever opening titles are through .  as it slogs along to a cheesy , happy-for-all-parties conclusion , _dead_man_ lives up to its title and then some--not only does the movie grow even more tired and die , it still insists on going on . . .  like a zombie .  
boy , what a great movie ! !  keanu reeves and morgan freeman acting together , the director of the fugitive ( andrew davis ) back again to give us another thriller , and the beautiful rachel stealing beauty weisz thrown in to boot .  how could this not be a blockbuster ?  all die-hard keanu reeves fans , read on .  ol " much ado about nothing " plays eddie kasalivich , a machinist studying at the university of chicago .  to help pay for the rent , he takes on this job making the machinery for a hydrogen project being conducted by the university .  by happy coincidence , he also happens to stumble on the solution to the final problem and thus is the only one who knows the key to performing this feat of miracle physics .  this project holds great promise : taking hydrogen from water and giving out more energy than is put in .  a potential solution to the earth's energy problems without the pollution cost .  surely nobody could have any problems with that ?  morgan freeman is paul shannon , the project's sponsor .  he works for a very powerful organization that disagrees with the paternal project leader as to how quickly technology should be released to the public .  he figures the world will disintegrate into anarchy if the results of the project are released too quickly .  so he murders the project leader , blows up the project ( great but short scene here , sort of like a mini id4 city-devastation thing ) and tries to simulate the experiment at some other hi-tech hush-hush location .  unfortunately , our intrepid machinist and an english physicist ( weisz ) manage to get away and now follows a fugitive-like chase using a not too dissimilar rehash of that movie script .  this movie is just dying for a comparison with " the fugitive " .  both movies use chicago as the main city and since the place doesn't change much , i guess we can't really blame the setting for the paucity of atmosphere .  the trouble here is that where the fugitive had harrison ford and tommy lee jones , chain reaction only has keanu reeves and fred ward .  credit to them , but we aren't really given much of a chance to empathise with the characters .  where ford was able to work within the confines of the movie to evoke sympathy , eddie kasalivich just doesn9t seem very believeable and reeves' character is never given the time to develop .  it might have been a better investment in film to give the characters more depth and spend less time on the chase sequences , which frankly , get quite boring after a while .  harrison ford was " the man against the world . "  he was alone in a world where he didn't know who to trust and it came across real well .  in chain reaction , keanu reeves isn't alone .  now that would be fine if the fleeing couple had some chemistry and could really portray some paranoia , vulnerability and confusion .  we don't get this .  we get him thinking he's still in speed , only now our sandra bullock has an english accent , probably doesn't drive a bus , and hardly contributes anything to the movie .  the producers here probably thought , " hey , what if keanu and rachel don't hit it off too well ?  let's rope in that morgan to help us out . "  well , keanu and rachel didn't hit it off well on the screen , and most unfortunately , morgan freeman doesn't help much either .  the only thing we come to really know of paul shannon is that he always has a full load of cigars in his cigar holder .  it's not really his fault .  once again , andrew davis just doesn't take the time to build his characters .  someone must have convinced him that this time round , cinema dollars are best earned by making the movie run like a headless chicken .  the flying inkpot rating system : * wait for the tv2 broadcast .   * * a little creaky , but still better than staying at home with gotcha !   * * * pretty good , bring a friend .   * * * * amazing , potent stuff .   * * * * * perfection .  see it twice .  
there are those of us who think of leslie nielsen as the bumbling , hapless straight man from the hysterical " naked gun " films , crack an immediate smile and forgive him of whatever wavering movie spoof he's committed himself to starring in since .  the wavering movie spoofs , however , are less forgivable .  to be fair , " wrongfully accused , " the send-up in question and nielsen's third parody since the last " gun , " isn't quite as excruciatingly humorless as his " dracula : dead and loving it " or " spy hard , " which is a mighty good thing .  nielsen is still in tip-top comedic form , able as ever to deadpan his way through even the most horrible puns , but he really needs a screenplay that plays off his talents instead of relying on them , and he needs one very soon .   " wrongfully accused " meshes together the premises of " the fugitive " and " patriot games , " casting its always game star as ryan harrison ( get it ? ) , a master violinist who is drawn into an affair with a married temptress ( kelly le brock ) .  she , however , sets harrison up to take the rap for the murder of her husband ( michael york ) - a crime actually committed by a one-armed , one-legged , one-eyed man ( aaron pearl ) .  harrison is arrested , found guilty and sentenced to death , but escapes from a prison bus , of course , and then is pursued by a determined u . s . marshal named fergus falls ( richard crenna , unnecessarily riffing off of tommy lee jones' already smirky oscar-winning role ) .  there's also a mystery brunette ( melinda mcgraw ) and an assassination subplot involving the u . n . secretary general , but like any of it matters .   " wrongfully accused " gets off to an assured start , with an in-concert nielsen , touted " lord of the violin " by bare-chested posters , pulling a jimi hendrix on his musical instrument as hundreds of tuxedo-clad mosh in front of the stage .  nice touch .  most of the scenes that follow , however , never top the opener .   ( hysterical exceptions : the mentos and " baywatch " goofs . )  movie parodies are crammed in at an almost-subliminal rate , but most are empty .  when a giant snake lunges onto the screen and snatches a cast member a la " anaconda " or baseball players disappear into a " field of dreams " -esque cornfield , there's really nothing to laugh at .  other moments , like an interlude in a fishing shop , are so unfocused that you're not sure what you're supposed to be laughing at .  there seem to be more cheap references than frenzied send-ups here , so it's possible that director/writer pat proft , by bombarding the viewer with a careless mixture of the two , guarantees something is sure to stick .  and what does stick sticks well , particularly the jabs at genre conventions like stylized flashbacks and hard-boiled dialogue , what those " naked gun " s ( which proft collaborated on ) did great ; these bits are so on-target that they allow you to remember " wrongfully accused " as an almost-halfway-there spoof instead of a lame-brained failure .  the movie might have been cursed to begin with , opening fast on the heels of " mafia ! " , from proft colleague jim abrahams , and " baseketball , " from proft colleague david zucker , but it's a strong possibility that nobody is going to be accusing " wrongfully accused " of being nielsen's funniest .  
please don't mind this windbag letting off a bit of steam . . . i  just want to warn all of y'all not to waste your hard-earned $$$ on anaconda .  it's not even worth a 99-cent video rental .  don't listen to ebert on this one ( he has no clue what he's talking about ! )  btw i accompanied my friend to this one because she was * required * to watch it on assignment ( she reviews movies for a local paper ) .  now i'll actually back up my huffing and puffing .  here goes :  movie : anaconda rydain's bottom line : wait for it to come on usa up all night .  even then , i doubt it's worth the price of jolt ( to help you stay up that late ! )  why do i hate anaconda ?  let me count the ways . . .  first of all , this movie gets way too many snake facts wrong .  as an ophiophile ( snake lover ) , i can tell you that a ) anacondas would never reach a length of 40 feet , b ) they're scared of people , c ) cases of snakes eating adult humans are extremely rare because human shoulders are too wide to fit in a snake's mouth , and constrictor snakes don't kill what they can't eat , d ) people can outrun snakes with no trouble , especially heavy ones like anacondas , e ) if an anaconda did eat a human , it would need at least 6 months of sitting on its butt to digest the huge meal , therefore it couldn't run around gobbling up everybody else in the cast , and f ) snakes have no vocal cords , so they can't make funny squealing noises .  whew .  i was prepared to suspend reality if the movie would have been worth it .  unfortunately , anaconda was about as suspenseful and exciting as watching paint peel .  my friend and i even successfully predicted who would live at the end .  anybody can tell the bad guy is going to die eventually .  that was a pity because his character was one of the few reasons my friend and i didn't give up and fall asleep .  he was the most likable character in the movie .  who wouldn't enjoy somebody who looks like a deranged walt whitman ?  anaconda did have its cute moments : arguments between ice cube's character and the british guy , for instance .  however , those small flashes of wit were not worth the other hour and twenty-eight minutes of boring schlock .  the writers had - and blew - a multitude of opportunities to insert funny lines .  i was quite disappointed with a scene where a young guy tells a young lady that the jungle makes him horny .  did she retort with a clever , ego-withering comeback ?  of course not !   " i'm trying to work ! "  gee , that's even dumber than the crap comebacks i come up with .  she could have told him to go find a knothole or something . . .   ; p but i will admit , there was just one scene where i was surprised at the outcome ( hint : it involves the evil guy and miss crap comebacks ) .  as for the plot , i'm still trying to find one .  this movie was basically an excuse to get a boatload of people into dangerous territory where they could get snarfed by ridiculous , computer-generated anacondas with the eyes and fangs of vipers and the faster-than-gravity downward acceleration of a harrier jet .   ( harrier snake ? )  not to mention instant digestion so they could go snarf countless other victims .  the writers tried to throw in some sort of plot twist ( should i call it a plot knot because it made no sense ? ) in which the sick guy's g-friend kisses the evil dude and suddenly everybody hates said evil dude and starts trying to kill him .  that was about as clear and understandable as mission : impossible .   ( if someone could explain that movie to me , i'd be most grateful !  all the old-guy double agents looked the same ! ! )  i wasn't inspired by the acting , save for the evil dude .  i can't blame the actors , though .  it's not their fault they had a cruddy script to work with .  this concludes rydain's diatribe on a shameless exploitation ( and perpetuation ! ) of public fear of snakes .  comments , flames , anyone ?  -rydain the atomic cheese , fresh from chernobyl dairies !  
this movie is written by the man who is deemed to be " one of the hottest writers in hollywood " .  he wrote the groundbreaking screenplay for scream ( 8/10 ) , then added the successful i know what you did last summer ( 7 . 5/10 )  script to his mix , and also created the popular tv series " dawson's creek " .  so when he asked to direct his first movie , based on his first ever script written , everyone and their grandma said " sure , go for it ! " .  uhhm , my question is . . . did anyone bother reading this stupid script ? ? ?  plot : ace student leigh ann watson is mistakenly caught with some cheating papers by the bitchiest teacher in the west , mrs . tingle , and set to lose her scholarship to college .  when she and her friends visit the teacher at home in order to explain their side of the story , they end up tying her up , and slowly trying to talk some sense into the hardheaded woman .  critique : it's not so much that this is a bad movie , than the fact that it sucks .  this movie is chock-full of one-dimensional characters , contains no actual humor that i was able to zone in on , zero tension or thrills , plot holes the size of my big ass , lame pop tunes played to mask nothing going on in the movie , and molly ringwald , vivica a . fox and lesley anne warren tossed away in throwaway roles .  i was primed for this film as its interesting premise had me thinking misery ( 8/10 ) and 9 to 5 , but unfortunately for williamson , he went nowhere with the bright foundation , making references to the exorcist and dr .  zhivago , which i doubt many in his target market will appreciate .  he also forgot about suspense , with all of his characters based on incomprehensible decisions , unbelievable motivations and simply boring us with all of their trite dialogue .  sure , katie holmes is cute , and her co-star , marisa coughlan , did a reasonably amusing impression of the exorcist ( worth two points out of my three on ten ) , but how can we forgive the biggest one-dimensional character in any film , holmes' rival in the film , mrs . tingle's complete unprofessionalism being let go by all others around her ( are teachers allowed to behave that way nowadays ? ) and a transparent romance between holmes and some long-haired dude , hired to be the poor man's version of skeet ulrich ( who himself is a poor man's version of johnny depp ! ) .  all in all , this movie was laughable for me , provided me with no insight into anything , demonstrated williamson's genuine lack of directorial skills alongside a juvenile script , and provided helen mirren with a great role to chew into , unfortunately forgetting to give her character any believability , humanity or capacity to comprehend .  no hip lines , no cheap thrills , just a dull time at the movie theater .  if you want to see a funny teenage movie , go see detroit rock city ( 8/10 ) , and thank my drunken , sorry ass in the morning .  little known facts about this film and its stars : kevin williamson's father was a fisherman .  kevin used his knowledge of fishing hooks and winches when creating the killer in i know what you did last summer ( 7 . 5/10 ) .  he is also a huge fan of steven spielberg and coincidentally , so is dawson leery on tv's " dawson's creek " , a show kevin created .  he was once an aspiring actor .  in fact , he even landed a bit part on tv's " another world " .  also , williamson has gone on record to say that an unsupportive english teacher who once told him that he would never amount to anything was the inspiration for mrs . tingle , which is also loosely based on the book " killing mr . griffin " by the writer of i know what you did last summer ( 7 . 5/10 ) ,  lois duncan .  he has also come out and said that he is a gay man .  helen mirren was born in london , england under the name ilynea lydia mironoff .  she is married to director taylor hackford , whose works include devil's advocate ( 8/10 ) and an officer and a gentleman ( 8 . 5/10 ) .  this film was originally titled killing mrs .  tingle , but was changed after the columbine high school shooting incident .  actress marisa coughlan will star in kevin williamson next tv project called " wasteland " .  this is actor barry watson first full feature film .  he has played the character of " seth " on tv's " malibu shores " several times .  
in a typical cinematic high school , the football jocks have sex with the girls and then dump them , but not before the boys' scores are dutifully recorded in their little black books .  as the sexual acts take place , the other guys hang out nearby , guzzling beer and grunting like pigs .  in the rage : carrie 2 , robert mandel's terminally bland sequel to carrie , there isn't a single original moment .  only amy irving returns from carrie , and the talent of the rest of the sequel's cast is impossible to determine given the stupefying mediocrity of rafael moreu's script .  as rachel , the horror story's lead , emily bergl gives one of the least scary performances in recent memory , but it isn't exactly her fault .  the director asks for little from his actors , which is precisely what he gets .  sporadically in this lame and lifeless movie , rachel will cause school lockers and windows to fly open , but generally she just mopes around looking like a victim .  her fellow students delight in tormenting her .  of course , she will get her revenge in the obligatory ending bloodbath in which she will decapitate and castrate the boys and crush the girls with burning timbers .  as the movie marks time until its big finale , it throws in some repugnant scenes , hoping to turn audience's stomachs .  rachel's girlfriend commits a horrible and realistic suicide after the boy who made " love " to her the night before spurns her .   ( he gets major points in his black book for this , but his buddies say he would have gotten more if he had had sex with her after her death . )  even a helpless puppy is run over , and we see his poor , little body flipping over and over under a truck .  the teenagers in the movie are completely blas ? about it all .   " doesn't it offend you that some girl offed herself yesterday , " asks one of the few kids with a conscience .   " why ? "  responds his nonplussed girlfriend .   " she wasn't anybody . "  remarkably devoid of any energy , especially for a horror flick , the movie makes one yearn for a fast forward button on the theater's armrest .  with material this bad , the film's only hope is to go for parody , but it isn't smart enough to realize it .  even the mandatory epilogue is as pointless and predictable as the rest of the movie .  the rage : carrie 2 runs 1 : 45 .  it is rated r for graphic violence , teen alcohol abuse , sex , nudity and profanity and would be acceptable only for older teenagers .  
man , this was one wierd movie .  similar to conspiracy theory in that it couldn't decide which genre it is .  the first hour is your standard stock aliens clone , which nicely created an eerie atmosphere about the ship .  the last half hour ?  this was when the makers blew the script out the airlock and just decided - " screw it , let's just kill everybody " .  from then on - forget sci-fi . . . this  movie becomes 100% horror .  what really dissappointed me about this movie was that it tried to scare you in entirely the wrong way .  instead of using clever tricks or trying to build up to a scare - this movie just uses loud noises , sudden camera shifts and short quick bursts of gore . . . . . yawn . . . . everyone's  seen it all before and knows when to expect it .  the one thing that was done well was the lead up to finding out about what happened to the previous crew .  there are skeletons lying around mangled and mashed , but what did this ?  then finally after being painfully restored - the new crew views the video .  the acting isn't too bad at all . . . . . considering what the actors had to work with anyway , as there is no complex or interesting dialogue to speak of .  there was some very nice camerawork in certain sequences though , like when the hull near the bridge of the event horizon is breached and the camera pans back to follow specific objects as they bounce across the deck and are sucked out into space .  this movie could have been so much better .  it had a good experienced cast who deserved more to work with .  there was just nothing new here that any of us haven't seen before in aliens or hellraiser .  
the king and i , a warner brothers animated , musical feature , recycles the classic story of a woman who challenges the heart of a king , with obvious results .  when anna ( miranda richardson ) , a british schoolteacher , travels to saim to educate the king's ( martin vidnovic ) children , she learns that the king is treating his people unfairly , and must say something to the greedy ruler .  meanwhile , the king's prime minister ( ian richardson ) , the stereotypical villain , plots to overthrow the king , taking the throne .  the last , and most predictable , main subplot deals with the king's son ( allen d . hong ) , and his love for a servant , tuptim ( armi arabe ) , and how he conflicts with his feelings , and the ancient laws of saim .  not even the lone strong character of anna can save the unbelievably horrible waste of talent , as the king and i's problems could fill the blank pages of a journal .  i will only note the major difficulties , for it would take pages to elaborate on every detail .  the screenplay , written by arthur rankin , peter bakalian , jacqeline feather , and david seidler , which is based upon the play written by richard rodgers and oscar hammerstein , has some of the worst dialogue written in a film within recent memory , as every time the obnoxious king would shout , " etc , etc , etc , " i would cringe .  literally .  speaking of cringing- i did quite a bit of this during the rather short film , which is a classic display of terrible filmmaking .  besides the repetitive dialogue from the king , on the whole , the songs seem out of place , and unlike the lyrics , are unmagical .  the sole song which is used cleverly is " getting to know you , " which is used as anna shows the children the great outdoors , which they have never been exposed to .  unlike disney animated features , the king and i's songs don't add to the film , and are as uneffective as could be .  take the following scenario as an example , as the sheer horror of the king and i's music is at its worst .  you're being hunted by a dragon !  what do you do ! ?  sing a happy song !  martin vidnovic voices the king without effort or emotion- you hear the saying two negatives don't make a positive ?  believe it !  with the terrible dialogue that the king has , along with his awful voice track , the king is completely unbelievable , only shows mild signs of any personality , and the only thing that changes in the king is that he says " etc . , etc . , etc . , " more and more as the film progresses .  no personality at the beginning of the movie , none at the end .  and where does this character's personality change ?  hey , i thought anna was supposed to change him !  isn't that the whole plot ?  the prime minister's hideous sidekick ( darrell hammond ) brings his share of cringes as well - oh no !  another one of his teeth fell out !  hardy-har-har !  he is supposed to bring laughs for the kidlets , but even at age five i would have cringed while watching him .  by the way this review is going , you may think the reasoning for my hate for this film is due to not liking animated films- hence why i hate this movie , because the king and i is a disgrace to animation .  animated films , such as 1994's the lion king and 1998's the prince of egypt , are among my favorite movies of all time .  the animation team does design their share of well animated settings , so this makes it easier to take my mind off of the annoying king , until i realize that day and night switch back in fourth within seconds .  i have not read the play , or seen the oscar winning , 1956 film adaption , but from what i can tell , the screenplay for the 1999 version completely butchers the play , for the king and i is never magical , nor interesting .  if it wasn't for miranda richardson , who voices anna with feeling , the king and i could earn the title , " worst movie of the decade . "  instead , the king and i will just go down as among the year's worst .  the bottom line- avoid this movie at all costs .  not even young children , the target audience in this film , will enjoy it .  not the slightest bit .  
synopsis : cro-magnon ayla loses her mother to an earthquake and escapes certain death by a lion .  reluctantly rescued by a neanderthal clan who likes to have sex doggy-style , ayla grows up to become a blond , feminist supermodel who challenges the neanderthal patriarchy by throwing rocks and giving birth without a mate .  comments : allow me to state for the record that i find daryl hannah an appealing presence in movies .  she proved quite charming as the intelligent astronomer in the romantic comedy roxanne and equally creepy as pris in the sci-fi classic blade runner .  the clan of the cave bear clearly tries to capitalize on hannah as a selling point : the poster art bears a striking closeup of hannah in tribal paint and the video box prominently features her name in lettering the same size as the title .  not even her starring role in this turkey , unfortunately , can save it from being an unbelievable exercise in cheese .  it's so uniquely bad ( a film dealing with prehistoric man that actually tries , and miserably fails , to be serious ) that it's oddly fascinating .  the ridiculous attempt at drama here leaves the audience somehow transfixed , wanting to see how this dud plays out .  the clan of the cave bear is based upon a popular novel by jean m . auel .  to this day , the book possesses a loyal cult following .  i remember a dear friend of mine had a dog-eared copy of the novel she had read as a child with all the so-called dirty parts blacked out with marker by her grandmother .  i have never read this book , but i sure hope it's 10 , 000 times better than its film adaptation .  if not , then i'm at a complete loss to explain its popularity .  the clan of the cave bear immediately opens with a comically absurd scene .  a young ayla , looking much like drew barrymore in e . t . ,  tramps about in the woods .  with her cute little ponytails and fur wrapped about her , the audience's expectations of a convincing portrayal of prehistory are immediately shattered .  what follows is a laughably choreographed sequence in which an earthquake swallows up ayla's mother ( a blonde with fur pants . . . er ,  leggings ) .  tearful ayla looks on as the cameraman shakes the camera . . . well ,  as the earthquake slowly recedes .  a hungry lion becomes interested in her for lunch , but the screaming six-year-old manages to outrun the king of the wild and find a safe haven .  i won't detail the story any further ; this seems enough to illustrate my point .  this movie is really stupid .  it never even gives the audience a chance to suspend their disbelief .  also , the obvious comparison between the appearance of cro-magnon man in prehistory and the rise of feminism in our century is about as subtle as burning a wonderbra in front of charlton heston .  the movie doesn't just suggest this message ; it whacks the message into the audience with a two-by-four .  a blond , gorgeous woman challenges the social laws of a bunch of people in gaudy brown wigs .  she's of the " new people " ; they're of the " old people " with " the memories . "  yep .  we get it .  we get it .  the clan of the cave bear apparently received an academy award nomination for best make-up , which surprises me .  the movie depends upon a lot of make-up obviously , but much of it is unconvincing .  as stated before , daryl hannah is daryl hannah here ; she looks like she just stepped out of the shower all the time .  the rest of the characters have dark make-up of some sort smeared over them to look like dirt .  the face-painting that's occasionally seen is perhaps the only notable work here in my mind .  this movie also suffers from its new age trappings .  maybe the music sounded a lot more fresh or original during 1985 , but now it sounds dated and cliched , like poorly conceived elevator music .  add to this the film's faux-mysticism , including spirit animals and dream visions , and a narrator who sounds like a psychic you'd expect to hear on a 1-900 number , and you get a movie that has serious problems being serious .  the clan of the cave bear is rated r , though it's probably one of the most inoffensive offensive films i've seen in quite a while .  it contains several scenes of sex sans nudity .  the violence mostly consists of hunting scenes .  the funniest moment of the movie occurs when a neanderthal in love with ayla attempts to rescue her from a ferocious bear .  the bear bites his head off and the audience sees it rolling about .  although this may sound gratuitous , i'm sure , it's so cheesy that it probably won't bother most people .  the clan of the cave bear is a bad movie .  however , as i wrote at the beginning of this review , it does have the distinction of originality .  typically when i think of bottom-of-the-barrel films dealing with early man , fantasy movies involving dinosaurs ( who did not exist at the same time as man ) and raquel welch come to mind .  the clan of the cave bear tries so hard to be serious that , though it's so bad , the audience is still interested by the unique setting and characters of the movie ( which is why i awarded this turkey two stars ) .  i have to think that fans of the book would be disappointed with this film version ; however , i'm only basing this observation on the fact that the book is almost invariably better than the movie .  i shudder to think that it could be otherwise . . .  
salaries of hollywood top actors are getting obscenely large these days and many find this to be the main reason for skyrocketing movie budgets .  actors who demand such salaries might be greedy , but in some instances they are quite justified , because many films would never be watched or even made without their participation .  proof for that can be found even in the realm of low-budget movies , and one fine example is breakaway , 1995 thriller directed by sean dash and starring ( in ) famous figure skater tonya harding .  face of tonya harding is most prominently featured on movie's poster , but the main star of the film is terri thompson who plays myra , attractive woman who works as a courier for gangster .  one day she decides to retire , but her employers are anything but enthusiastic about that .  realising that her life suddenly became worthless , myra starts running for her life , followed by professional assassins .  terri thompson being the actual star of the film instead of tonya harding becomes quite understandable after the scenes that feature former figure skater .  although tonya harding displays convincing martial arts abilities , her acting leaves much to be desired .  on the other hand , her disappointing efforts are hardly out of place in the film that lacks originality , believable characters and situations and actually represents anything that gave b-films a bad name .  martin sheen's brother joe estevez , whose character looks like he had entered from another movies' set , is the only bright spot of breakaway .  unfortunately , he appears in this film too little too late to prevent viewers from realising why tonya harding's silver screen debut proved to be her last film .  
movies like six days , seven nights make me mad because talented people like harrison ford , anne heche , and ivan reitman put a lot of hard work in to a script worth about ten cents . ?  the script was written by michael browning , and he decided that , instead of thinking up new ideas , he'd rehash a lot of cliches , omit even the slightest bit of character development , and then throw in drug-dealing pirates to provide for a few high-level action sequences and explosions . ?  there are good scripts out there that high-profile actors can make ( see the truman show , for instance ) . ?  six days , seven nights is simply a waste .  let's see .   .   .  we have to get harrison ford and anne heche alone on an island . ?  so , how do we do that ? ?  well , we'll make her a feisty magazine editor , and we'll make him a crusty old pilot . ?  but wait , she has to have a fianc ? e ; that can be david schwimmer . ?  but wait , if she has a fianc ? e , how will she and harrison ford crash on the island alone ? ?  i know ! ?  they'll get to their vacation spot , and then she'll get called back ! ?  yessssss ! ?  so , they'll crash on the island , and that will be funny for about five minutes . ?  shucks .  oh , i've got it ! ?  we'll throw in a distracting subplot in which her fianc ? e has sex with a really attractive woman who acts like a bimbo , and then he can feel guilty . ?  then , when anne heche kisses harrison ford ( they have to kiss , because otherwise nobody will want to see the movie ) , it will be a vindicated action , because her fianc ? e will already have cheated on her ! ?  then , for no obvious reason , they'll accidentally run into pirates who try to kill them . ?  oh , yes ! ?  i feel so good about this story . ?  instead of using characterization to propel the events , it will be completely random , and yet totally predictable ! ?  imagine that .  don't get me wrong -- six days , seven nights is not a boring picture ; ford and heche both do a great job . ?  the sparks fly between them , and so most of browning's inane dialogue is drowned out by the actors' sheer force of talent .   ? almost every scene between them has energy that the performers bring to the screen , and i found myself laughing pretty hard . ?  schwimmer is also funny , and manages to milk all of his scenes for whatever he can get . ?  and reitman , who has made some good films , at least tries to make things exciting . ?  even though the pirate subplot is profoundly dumb , i was prepared to be pleasantly sidetracked by the action sequences .  it's just when i start to think about the story that my contempt for this film surfaces . ?  the picture feels like it's been hacked to pieces -- i wouldn't be surprised if five or six inept subplots have been edited out completely . ?  the ones that are here are as bad as they come ( i think i let out a very audible groan when they get the first glimpse of the pirate ships ) , and i'd just like to shake the producers by the shoulders and scream , " why did you pick this awful script ! ? " ?  the film is outright stupid , but some of the elements are subtly horrifying . ?  for instance , take the subplot in which the schwimmer character has sex with the bimbo , and then feels really guilty . ?  this is a serious problem in real life , but six days , seven nights reduces any chance of complexity to a weak plot device : ? his actions are what makes it okay for heche to kiss ford . ?  in a script that lacks even a glimpse of intelligent subtlety , i find it odd that such a strangely insulting device ended up in the story .  this is summer movie season , but that doesn't mean our movies have to be dumb . ?  1998 so far has been one of the worst years in recent memory for summer blockbusters . ?  when i was in line for six days , seven nights , i heard the woman in front of me ask for " two tickets to that new harrison ford movie . "   ? why didn't she know the name of the film ? ?  i suppose she just didn't care .   ? what bothers me even more is that the people who make these big-budget pictures don't realize that their films are becoming parodies of themselves . ?  good actors should sign to good scripts , and if hollywood insists on making flicks to rake in cash , they least they could do is assume that we'd like to spend our money on a story worth more than ten cents .  
if anything , " stigmata " should be taken as a warning against releasing similarly-themed films relatively close to one another .  of the four supernatural horror flicks released this year , it is clearly the worst .  i suppose i should have seen this coming .  after all , " blair witch " thoroughly creeped me out , " sixth sense " was mildly spooky , and then " stir of echoes " had its moments , but wasn't anything i'd lose sleep over .  clearly , the quality of the horror this summer has slowly been dropping .  is it then any surprise that " stigmata " is the dullest , most horribly executed piece of mtv-influenced tripe i have seen in a long while ?  no , not really .  patricia arquette plays frankie page , a hairdresser from pittsburgh who receives a rosary as a gift from her globe-trotting mother .  as it turns out , the rosary belonged to a recently-deceased brazilian priest .  the priest's church had been under investigation by father andrew kiernan ( gabriel byrne ) because of the mysterious appearance of a bleeding statue .  father kiernan is an investigator who has made a career out of disproving supposed religious signs , but this time he believes there is something to the bleeding statue .  his investigation is soon called off , however , when the frankie starts exhibiting signs of the stigmata , in which a person is inflicted with wounds like that of jesus christ .  father kiernan is initially skeptical of frankie' s story , considering she's an atheist , but once he witnesses the stigmata attacks himself , he dedicates himself to finding out what is going on .  he eventually begins to suspect that his boss , cardinal houseman ( jonathan pryce ) , is concealing something that could bring down the catholic church .  as it turns out , the dead priest had been working on the translation of a " fifth gospel " before they were excommunicated .  the new rupert wainwright music video .   .   .  i mean film " stigmata " is the sort of film that starts off ok and only gets worse .  indeed , it would have been good if it were a music video , because it's only interesting for about five minutes .  i'm not sure what wainwright is trying to prove with his endless parade of slow-motion , double-exposure , and extreme close-ups ( whoaaaaaa ! ! ! ! ) , other than the fact that he has the most swelled head of any director in hollywood and , yes , he has been to film school .  his camera trickery is interesting for a little while , but eventually , it becomes headache-inducing .  what this film needed is a second audio track to be played over the dialogue ( such as it is ) , with wainwright screaming at the audience , " see ?  look at what i can do !  i'm an ex-cellent dir-ect-or . "  maybe then he'd explain why he decided to start half of his scenes with slow-motion shots of water dripping in reverse , or why he included random superfluous shots as that of an egg frying ( ooh , scary ! ) .  if there was some underlying meaning behind all this camera trickery , i didn't see it .  just when you thought it was safe to get involved in the story , here comes a double-exposure shot of two patricia arquettes collapsing into bed for no reason whatsoever .  arrrrrrrghhhh .   .   .  then again , the superfluous camera trickery wouldn't bother me if " stigmata " had a story or characters that were remotely engaging .  though wainwright's vanity certainly doesn't help , he does seem to have been given a nearly unworkable script .  where are plot continuity and character development when you need them ?  case in point : frankie page is the character that ( i assume ) we are supposed to identify and sympathize with , but we aren't given any back story on her character , or any reason to like her .  the extent of her character development seems to be that she is a hard-working hairdresser ( who can somehow afford a cavernous apartment on the top floor of her building ) and she's kind of cute , so let's start the bleeding !  the fact that she's clearly not the brightest bulb in the drawer doesn't help , either .  according to frankie page , what is the first thing to do after receiving mysterious wounds on your wrists and back ?  go clubbing !  sure , that makes sense .  arquette , byrne , and pryce give it the old college try , but their characters are so one-dimensional that they just appear to be sleepwalking .  scenes between arquette and byrne that were probably supposed to be sexually charged fall almost embarrassingly flat , because the setup of the romantic subplot is so clumsily handled that it almost reaches the point of becoming laughable .  even though frankie page's life is falling apart before her very eyes , she still finds the time to hit on a priest who wanders in to her hair salon .  even more curiously , he seems to be interested in her advances .  father andrew's religious doubt pops up so suddenly that it seems more silly than dramatic .  as for pryce , he may as well wear a curled mustache and cackle , " i'll get you , my pretty , " for all the depth his cardinal houseman is afforded .  trust me , i'm not revealing anything by telling you pryce turns out to be a villain .  what's worse , after being faced with dull characters and the prospect of having annoying camera tricks and loud music jammed down our throats , we now have to contend with a story that starts off in one direction , veers off in another , then another , and ends up being totally incomprehensible .  first of all , the film doesn't even bother to explain what should be very simple plot details . how does frankie get the stigmata merely by touching a rosary ?  how come an atheist like her was chosen , since father andrew mentions that only very devout believers have ever received stigmata ?  actually , i'm not sure what frankie was posessed by .  supposedly , stigmata occurs when one is posessed by the holy spirit , but the film later has her being posessed by the dead priest , and later by some evil spirit ( i think ) .  which one is it ?  the answer to this question , of course , is very simple : the possessing entity in each scene is determined by whichever effects and flashy camera work mr . wainwright wants to use this time .  furthermore , the ending is a ridiculously neat little wrap-up , and the filmmakers compound this problem by ultimately turning the film into a diatribe against the catholic church .  if you do any research at all about the gospel of st . thomas , you'll find that it is not being suppressed by the church ( as the film seems to claim ) , but that it is readily available at your local library .  there's nothing the catholics need to worry about , though .   " stigmata's " religion is so off-base that it can't be confused for anything remotely resembling the real catholic church .  if they wanted to portray catholic priests as mobsters , they should have gone all-out and equipped them with sharkskin suits and tommy guns , which would have been far more interesting .  i'm not catholic ; in fact , i don 't care much for the catholic church , but its cartoonish misrepresentation in this film should not be considered realistic by any means .  it's rare to see a film that fails on as many levels as " stigmata " does .  it' s not thought-provoking , though it would like to be , and it is definitely not scary , though it pretends to be .  i'm not sure why they tried to pass this off as a horror film , because there is absolutely nothing scary about the story .  maybe it's an attempt to cover up the fact that none of the scenes have any dramatic weight whatsoever .  the initial shock of seeing arquette covered with blood is dulled by the fact that it happens over , and over , and over .  like so many films of the mtv generation , this one suffers from overkill .  so much is overdone in " stigmata , " that it eventually has no effect on the audience , leaving us to pick out the film's ( many ) flaws .  i'm also still trying to figure out why the quotation they take from the gospel of st . thomas is so earth-shattering .  when we finally hear it , the saying sounds like something every five-year-old learns on their first day of sunday school , which means that for all its flash , the whole film is really much ado about nothing .  the dog days of summer usually produce one monstrous dog , and " stigmata " is it .  
john boorman's " zardoz " is a goofy cinematic debacle so fundamentally misconceived and laughably executed that it takes on a bizarre enjoyment quality all its own .  not since the rampant bumblings of one edward d . wood jr . has a movie been so silly and so serious at the same time .  of course , wood's career can be explained by two things : he had no money and he had no talent .  boorman , on the other hand , cannot court such excuses to explain " zardoz " ( or his follow-up film , the equally awful " exorcist ii : the heretic " ) .  boorman obviously had a sizable budget , a matinee idol movie star ( sean connery ) in the lead role , and although you wouldn't know it from this film , boorman does indeed have talent .  this is the man who made the slick modern masterpiece " deliverance " ( 1972 ) , as well as the autobiographical world war ii drama " hope and glory " ( 1987 ) , the slightly over-conceived arthurian epic " excalibur " ( 1981 ) and the father-son jungle adventure " the emerald forest " ( 1985 ) .  his films all show that boorman is never lacking in imagination , but sometimes that comes at the cost of coherence and taste .  if boorman is anything , he's ambitious , and when he succeeds , it's in grand fashion .  unfortunately , the bigger they are , the harder they fall , and when boorman falls , the resounding impact can be heard for miles around .   " zardoz " is meant to takes its place among the grandest of mystical movies , an obsession of boorman's .  his screenplay tries to elicit the same mythological connotations of the arthurian legends or even " the wizard of oz , " a book which figures into the movie's plot .  but , despite all this reaching , the resulting movie is more unintentionally funny than intentionally enigmatical or compelling .  the events take place in the distant year 2293 , but there is little of the typical futuristic movie-ness to be found .  in fact , things seems to have moved backwards , with people riding horses , shooting old-style guns , and living in large victorian mansions .  it's more middle ages than space age .  the world of " zardoz " is divided into two distinct hemispheres : the outlands , where all the poor , pathetic people live , and the vortex , where a select group of wealthy intellectuals live in comfort and everlasting life .  these immortals never grow old , they never engage in sexual activity , they possess psychological powers , and they live in a sort of quasi-utopian marxist society where everyone is equal , and everyone contributes equally to the society .  however , if one breaks the rules , that person is punished by being aged so many years .  if someone breaks the rules enough , he or she is aged to the point of senility , and imprisoned to an eternal existence in a geriatric home with others aged criminals .  one of the immortals , arthur frayn ( niall buggy ) , a squirmy man with a mustache and goatee tattooed on his face , is charged with keeping order in the outlands and forcing the residents to farm so the immortals can be fed .  like " the wizard of oz , " he adopts a god-like status among the people by flying in to their part of the world in a giant stone carved like a menacing head .   ( this flying head is one of the movie's opening images , and it's a dead giveaway of the lunacy to come . )  calling himself zardoz , frayn gathers a bunch of outlanders and makes them into a group called the exterminators , whose purpose is to kill most of the other outlanders so they can't procreate and take up more resources .  from inside his giant , stone head , zardoz bellows seriously laugh-inducting statements like , " the gun is good .  the penis is evil . "  that line alone is worth the movie's cult following .  one day , an exterminator named zed ( sean connery ) , sneaks into zardoz's flying stone , pushes frayn out , and goes back to the vortex .  once there , the immortals label him a " brutal " and study him like a lab rat , taking great , perverse care in exploring his sexuality , which is a mystery to them .  they seem especially interested in his ability to gain an erection , and there is one downright hilarious sequence where a bunch of scantily-clad female scientists show zed erotic footage on a video screen in an attempt to determine what gets him worked up .  i say " hilarious " because that is exactly what " zardoz " is .  it is obvious that boorman did not intend it to be so ; he made this film with the straightest of faces , although i have a hard time believing that as production moved forward , he didn't get even the slightest inkling of how patently ridiculous it was becoming .  just looking at connery is enough to give one the giggles - he spends most of the film running around in a red loin cloth that resembles a diaper , a mane of hair braided halfway down his back , a wyatt earp-style handlebar mustache , and a pair of thigh-high patent leather boots that would look more appropriate on a cheap hollywood hooker .  boorman made the film right after the critical and financial success of " deliverance , " which is the only reason i can imagine a studio would green-light this effort .  he attracted some rich talent on both sides of the camera , including cinematographer geoffrey unsworth ( " 2001 " ) , whose striking visuals are about the only good thing in " zardoz " besides the inadvertent humor .  sean connery had made his last james bond film in 1971 , and perhaps he was looking for a change in pace .  he got exactly that in " zardoz , " and it's a wonder it didn't end his career .  i'm sure boorman intended for this movie to make some grand statements .  is it a treatise about the infallibility of eternal life ?  is it a condemnation of those who consider growing old to be a bad thing ?  or is it a social statement , something about the inherent negativity of class distinctions and the violence it creates ?  karl marx might like it if he were more like timothy leary .  come to think of it , maybe boorman made it as an extended lsd trip .  people high on illicit substances are the only ones i can imagine enjoying this asinine silliness as anything more than a completely unintentional comedy .  
the kids in the hall are an acquired taste .  it took at least a season of watching their show on hbo before i became a believer .  maybe after watching a half dozen kids in the hall movies , they would grow into the big screen .  my recommendation is that , unless you are a big fan of the kids , skip the film .  as it is , their first--and most likely only--attempt at a full length film lacks the qualities that made their comedy work on tv .  a big-budget and glossy production can not make up for a lack of spontaneity that permeates their tv show .  the kids go through the motions , but you get the feeling that they arent really having fun doing so .  and this makes it more difficult for the audience to enjoy their antics .  brain candy is a bunch of skits tied together by the story of a pharmaceutical company that develops a new drug to cure depression .  in typical sketch-comedy tradition , each actor plays several roles .  doctor cooper ( kevin mcdonald ) and his team create the drug .  then , under pressure from don roritor ( mark mckinney ) , founder and president of roritor pharmaceuticals , dr . cooper releases the drug into the marketplace .  the ensuing distribution of the new happy pill throughout the populace drives the rest of the film .  at about 90 minutes , brain candy still seems long .  the best thing about sketch comedy--and the kids are no exception--is the ability to quickly deliver the laughs , then go on to another quick skit .  but with the additional set-up necessary in telling a longer , coherent story , the laughs just dont come fast enough .  strangely , the show is even more tame than it was when on cable tv .  the movie makes several attempts at risqueness--mostly by pointing up the gayness of one of scott thompsons characters--but they seem almost forced ; as if they have to live up to a pg rating .  one of the best bits , though , does make use of thompsons naked buttocks ; we see him charging into battle--going to have sex with some guys taking a shower .  in the classic of this genre , monty python pulled off this delicate balancing act between plot advancement and punchline delivery for most of the holy grail .  the kids , unfortunately , are not up to the task .  there are some amusing moments , to be sure , but not enough to make the experience an enjoyable one .  
there was a time when john carpenter was a great horror director .  of course , his best film was 1978's masterpiece , " halloween , " but he also made 1980's " the fog , " and 1987's underrated , " prince of darkness . "  heck , he even made a good film in 1995 , with " in the mouth of madness . "  but something terribly wrong happened to him in 1992 , with the terrible comedy , " memoirs of an invisible man . "  somehow , carpenter has lost his touch , with junk like his failed 1995 remake of , " village of the damned , " to his uninspired 1996 sequel , " escape from l . a . " those movies , however , look like cinematic works of art compared to his latest film , " john carpenter's vampires . "  if i was him , i definately wouldn't want to put my own name in the title .  it is a sad state of affairs when carpenter can make something as misguided and flatly written and filmed as , " vampires . "  the story is simple .  jack crow ( james woods ) is a vampire hunter who , along with one of his partners , montoya ( daniel baldwin ) , and a prostitute , katrina ( sheryl lee ) , survives an attack from the master vampire , valek ( thomas ian griffith ) .  since katrina was previously bitten by him , crow takes her along because anyone who is bitten by valek becomes telepathically linked to him until they themselves turn into vampires a couple days later , and crow is hoping to find him with the help of her .  it seems valek's mission is to steal a black , wooden cross from a roman catholic church that will enable him to become so powerful that sunlight will not destroy him .  my question is : how many time have we seen this same story played out ?  well , the answer is just about as many times as a better version of the story has been made .   " john carpenter's vampires , " sadly enough , is one of the most unscary horror films i've ever seen .  in fact , there isn't even one suspenseful moment in the whole 105-minute running time .  the non-stop vampire attack sequences are stylelessly filmed , without any interesting camera work , which is usually a trademark of carpenter's .  and then we come to the screenplay , which , as far as i can tell , is nearly non-existent .  there is no story development , and there isn't even an attempt to flesh out the characters .  james woods can be a good actor , but he has nothing to do here but to say a couple of " pseudo " -clever lines of dialogue .  daniel baldwin has some potential , but his character comes off as being very dense .  and sheryl lee ( faring much better as laura palmer in " twin peaks " ) , like all of the female characters , plays an offensive stereotypical whore .  there is not an ounce of intelligence , or excitement in , " john carpenter's vamires , " which is very disheartening coming from an ex-fan of carpenter's .  he has said that he turned down directing , " halloween : h20 , " because he couldn't work up any excitement for it .  and yet , when asked about a " vampires " sequel , he said he would be happy to do it .  i think that's a definite sign that carpenter has finally lost any trace of his lasting talent , not to mention a significant number of iq points .  
two party guys bob their heads to haddaway's dance hit " what is love ? "  while getting themselves into trouble in nightclub after nightclub .  it's barely enough to sustain a three-minute _saturday_night_live_ skit , but _snl_ producer lorne michaels , _clueless_ creator amy heckerling , and paramount pictures saw something in the late night television institution's recurring " roxbury guys " sketch that would presumably make a good feature .  emphasis on the word " presumably . "  _a_night_at_the_roxbury_ takes an already-thin concept and tediously stretches it far beyond the breaking point--and that of viewers' patience levels .  the first five minutes or so of _roxbury_ play very much like one of the original " roxbury guys " skits .  with " what is love ? "  blaring on the soundtrack , the brotherly duo of doug and steve butabi ( chris kattan and will ferrell ) bob their heads , scope out " hotties " at clubs , and then bump a select few with violent pelvic thrusts .  there is one crucial difference , however--these guys speak .  that little fact has been used as justification for the film's existence , that the butabis' newfound capacity for speech would open up a whole new set of doors for the characters .  the doors opened by director john fortenberry and screenwriters steve koren , ferrell , and kattan are new , that's for sure , but they all lead to comic dead ends .  there is no story per se , only a loosely structured and linked series of subplots .  the brothers literally run into ( or , rather , get run into , as in by car ) richard grieco of _21_jump_street_ fame , and through him they gain entrance into the exclusive roxbury club .  there , they meet a hotshot club owner ( chazz palminteri , conspicuously uncredited--can you blame him ? ) , who takes an interest in an idea of theirs .  meanwhile , the bros' overbearing father ( dan hedaya ) wants them to stop clubbing .  when doug refuses and the dimwitted steve obeys his father , a rift is created between the two .  the narrative messiness of _roxbury_ would have been forgivable if all that went on were the slightest bit funny , but virtually none of it is .  the assembled press audience mostly sat stonily silent throughout the entire film , with the one big exception being a big laugh near the end .  alas , the joke--a rather lazy takeoff on _jerry_maguire_--will only strike a chord with people who have seen that film .  granted , a lot of people _have_ seen _jerry_maguire_ , but the fact that the film's best joke is completely dependent on one's familiarity with another film says a lot about _roxbury_'s lack of inspiration .  that lack of inspiration can be traced back to the insipid characters themselves .  like too many of the skits on the current incarnation of _saturday_night_live_ , " the roxbury guys " is a one-joke sketch that never once suggests that the characters have enough comic life in them to survive outside of the sketch context .  after watching one of the " roxbury " skits on snl , this is what you come away with from the characters : they bob their heads to " what is love ? " ,  bump unsuspecting women , and . . . that's all .  after watching _a_night_at_the_roxbury_ , you'll be left with exactly the same .  
